=== page 1 ===
Page 1 of 3 
SVKM’s NMIMS UNIVERSITY 
Student Grievances Redressal Policy, 2015 
Keeping student welfare as our highest priority and to fulfil obligations as prescribed 
by AICTE (AICTE Regulation No. 37-3/Legal/2012), the University hereby declares 
the Student Grievances Redressal policy. 
Short Title and Commencement 
1. The policy may be called as the Student Grievances Redressal Cell
(Establishment of the Committee, appointment of the members and procedure)
Policy 2015.
2. The policy shall come into force, as and when notified by the a ppropriate
authority.
Composition and tenure of the Committee 
3. The committee shall comprise of 1 Chairperson and 7 members representing
various schools and departments of the University.
Provided that the committee shall have 1 member from the school of which the
committee has received the application.
Further provided that, the committee shall have one Deputy Registrar as a
member who is to be invited on the basis of nature of the complaint.
4. The member of the committee shall be appointed by the Vice-Chancellor for a
period of 3 years.
5. The Vice-chancellor shall be the final authority in the matters of composition
and tenure of the Committee.
Appointment of the Ombudsman 
6. The Vice-chancellor shall appoint the Ombudsman to hear and decide appeals
against the recommendations of the Committee established under Rule 3.

=== page 2 ===
Page 2 of 3 
Procedure of filing of a Complaint/Application and the functioning of the
Committee 
7. Any student (former or present) SVKM’s NMIM S University shall have  the right 
to file a complaint or application to the Committee to redress his or her grievance.
8. Student must file an application along with necessary documents, if any, to the Office 
of the Registrar, NMIMS University, Mumbai.
9. After the receipt of the application from the applicant, the office of the Registrar shall 
fix the date, time and  venue of the meetin g after  having  a dis cussion with the 
members.
10. The meeting should be scheduled within one week of receipt of the application from 
the student. If in any case / eventuality there is a delay, the permission from the Vice 
Chancellor should be sought. The resolution time should be within maximum 15 days . 
However, the resolution time depends on the type and severity of the grievance.
11. All relevant papers, i ncluding communication f rom the school/university, if any,  
shall be circulated as hard / soft copy to all the members on or before the date of the 
meeting.
12. After fixing of the date of the meeting, a written notice must be sent to the student to  
be present in the meeting and convey hi s or her grievances before the Committee  
and the acknowledgement of receipt would be placed on record.
In case of a minor student (applicant), the student may be accompanied by his or her 
natural / legal guardian (either father or mother). No other person shall be allowed 
to the meeting.
13. The Committee members are expected to deliberate upon the case, the grievance of 
the applicant and the rules laid down by the University.  The brief facts, evidences  
and final recommendations by the Committee members shall be recorded in the  
format of minutes of the meeting.
14. The draft minutes shall be circulated to all the members of the Grievance Committee 
by the Registrar’s office immediately after the meeting.

=== page 3 ===
Page 3 of 3 
In case if any member does not reply to the draft minutes of meeting within 7 days of 
receipt of the minutes by such member, it would be deemed that he or she has 
approved the draft minutes. 
15. After the approval of draft minutes, the final minutes shall be sent to all members for
their signatures.
16. After seeking approval from the members, the recommendations shall be forwarded
through the Pro-Vice Chancellor to the Vice Chancellor for approval.
17. The decision of the Grievance Committee once approved by the Vice
Chancellor shall be communicated in writing to the applicant at the earliest
with the aggrieved student.
18. Only in the case where grievance is regarding the Vice Chancellor, the
Chancellor is the final authority.
Appeal 
19. The student/applicant shall have the right to file an appeal to the Ombudsman
within 30 days from the date of the written communication of
recommendations of the committee.
20. The student shall send written communication to the office of the Registrar
conveying his desire to file an appeal to the Ombudsman. The office of the
Registrar shall place the appeal along with all relevant material before the
Ombudsman and inform the student accordingly.   The Ombudsman shall
within a reasonable time decide the appeal.  Final decision would  be
communicated to the student by the Office of the Registrar.
Interpretaiton and clarification. 
21. In order to address difficulties in the interpretation or application of the
provisions of these rules, the Vice-chancellor shall have the power to issue
directions through guidance notes or circulars.