=== page 1 ===
1 | Page  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UGC GUIDELINES ON SAFETY OF STUDENTS ON AND 
OFF CAMPUSES OF HIGHER EDUCATIONAL 
INSTITUTIONS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIVERSITY GRANTS COMMISSION 
BAHADURSHAH ZAFAR MARG NEW 
DELHI — 110 002

=== page 2 ===
2 | Page  
 
UGC Guidelines on Safety of Students on and off Campuses of 
Higher Educational Institutions 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
1. Preamble 
University Grants Commission believes that a sa fe, secure and cohesive learning climate is an 
ineluctable precondition to quality education and research in HEIs. It should be the prime concern 
of educational administrators acro ss the country to ensure that students are safeguarded against 
attacks, threats and accidents, both man-made and natural. With this in mind, the Commission has 
formulated guidelines on the ways in which the ca mpuses of HEIs can be transformed into oasis of 
safety, security and study. All universities may make or amend their ordinances and other relevant 
statutory provisions accordingly to ensure that the directions contained in the guidelines are 
implemented in the best interests of students.    
 
2. Safety of Students on Campus: 
HEIs can play a significant role in ensuring the safety of the students by putting in place foolproof 
mechanisms and impregnable standards of safety. The key lies in institutionalizing the best 
practices and standard operating procedures that can substantively protect students from any 
threats and assaults, physical, social or psychological. Given below are some of the concerns that 
should be materialized by HEIs in the interest of students and institution.  
 Any physical infrastructure housing students, whether HEI or hostels, should be secured by a 
boundary wall of such height that it cannot be scaled over easily. In order to further fortify it, a 
fence of spiraling barbed wires can be surmounted on the wall so that unauthorized access to 
the infrastructure is prevented effectively. The entry points to such housing units should be 
restricted to three or less and they should be manned by at least three security guards, 
sufficiently armed, CC TV cameras, identity verification mechanism and register of unknown 
entrants/visitors with their identity proofs an d contact details. At le ast one woman security 
p e r s o n n e l  s h o u l d  b e  d e p l o y e d  a t  s u c h  e n t r y  p o i n t s  s o  t h a t  p h y s i c a l  s e c u r i t y  c h e c k  o f  g i r l  
students or visitor can be undertaken. The bags and other belongings of students/visitors can 
also be examined, manually and/or by metal de tectors, in order to secure a weapon-free and 
violence-free campus. 
 
 Biometric way of marking student attendance, both in HEI as well as hostels, can be an 
effective way to overcome proxy. Such digital me chanism can enable HEIs to keep an eye on a 
student’s movement and whereabouts in failsafe manner. 
 
 Students and staff should be provided easily identifiable and authentic ID cards and wearing of 
such cards in the institutional premises must be made compulsory by administration.   
 
 HEIs should flash at frequently visited juncti ons like canteen and no tice boards, helpline 
numbers  against ragging, sexual harassment, accidents, calamities and so on developed by 
UGC, State Govts. or HEIs so that students can record  and use them as and when required. It 
is mandatory for all HEIs to abide by and im plement all the provisions contained in UGC 
(Curbing the Menace of Ragging in Higher educational Institutions) Regulations, 2009. 
 
 In order to ensure that campus community receives timely, accurate, and useful information in 
the event of a significant emergency or dangerous situation on campus or in the local area that

=== page 3 ===
3 | Page  
 
poses an immediate threat to the health and sa fety of campus community members, HEIs can 
install the emergency notification system through which emergency message can be sent via e-
mail, telephone, cell phone an d text messaging within minute s of the occurrence of an 
incident. The system developed by  University of California, Berk l ey  ca l l e d  W a r nM e  i s  a  v er y 
good model to follow .The emergency information system can be supplemented by evacuation 
procedure to be followed in crisis condition so that stampede-like situations can be avoided. 
HEIs should take all necessary steps to ensure  that these systems are adequately tested and 
publicized for efficacious execution. 
 
 Setting up a university police station within the premises of the HEIs, wherever feasible, can go 
a long way in instilling a sense of security  amongst students and scare amongst nuisance 
makers and petty criminals. Officials of such a station can not only handle any crisis situation 
in an instant but also prevent untoward happenings by security measures like night patrols 
and so on. Further, it is understandable that classes, study, research, meetings, films or 
concerts can keep students on campus late at night. To handle these situations, police officials 
can provide on-demand short-distance escort servic es to students as they walk down to hostel 
or nearest taxi or bus-stand etc. Student communi ty of the HEIs can be encouraged to form a 
group of Community Service Officers (CSOs) to provide such service on rotation basis. HEIs 
can also provide Night Safety Shuttle facility to  such students which offer door-to-door pick 
and drop service. 
 
 A l l  H E I s  s h o u l d  e n s u r e  t h a t  p r o v i s i o n s  c o n t a i n e d  i n  U G C  ( P r o m o t i o n  o f  E q u i t y  i n  H i g h e r  
Education Institutions) Regulations, 2012 are observed by teaching & non-teaching staff, 
students and other stakeholders in letter and spirit. Discrimination, verbal or behavioral, 
based on the caste, religion, colour, nationality sex, gender, sexual orientation and social status 
is strictly prohibited and HEIs must do all it ta kes to ensure that such practices are nipped in 
the bud. 
 
 HEIs should mandatorily put in place a broad-based “Students Counseling System” for the 
effective management of problems  and challenges faced by students. It should be a unique, 
interactive and target-oriented system, involvin g students, teachers and parents, resolved 
toaddress common student concerns ranging from an xiety, stress, fear of change and failure to 
homesickness and a slew of academic worries.  I t  s h o u l d  b r i d g e  t h e  f o r m a l  a s  w e l l  a s  
communicative gaps between the students and the institution at large. Teacher 
counselors,trained to act as the guardians of st udents at the college level,should remain in 
close touch with the students allotted to them (b atch of 25 students) though out the year, cater 
to their emotional and intellectual needs and convey their growth report and feedback on 
attendance, examination results etc to their pa rents at regular interval of time. Teacher 
counselors can coordinate with wardens of host els and exchange personal details of students, 
academic record and behavior patterns for prompt pre-emptive or corrective action. 
 
 HEIs should organize quarterly parents-teachers meet (PTM) so that grievances and gaps in 
system can be addressed and resolved. Online complaint registration system can also be 
launched so that issues can be addressed before they slip out of hands of authorities.  
 
 On-campus medical facilities should be made av ailable to student and at least one ambulance 
can be kept in ready mode for attending emergency and crisis situations.  
 
 HEIs should install a fire safety system under which mechanisms for the detection of a fire, the 
warning resulting from a fire and standard operating procedures for the control of fire are 
evolved. This may include sprinkler systems or other fire extinguishing systems, fire detection 
devices, stand-alone smoke alarms, devices that  alert one to the presence of a fire, smoke-
control and reduction mechanisms and fire door s & walls that reduce the spread of a fire. 
Students and staff should be trained in the effe ctive operation of firefighting devices. Mock 
drills for fire situation should be undertaken at least once in a semester.

=== page 4 ===
4 | Page  
 
 UGC has written to HEIs time and again about the introduction of a compulsory course on 
Disaster Management for all students. HEIs should see to it that this initiative doesn’t end up 
in an academic ritual. In order to give students firsthand experience of tackling situations of 
disaster, HEIs should organize mock drills, workshops and awareness programmes frequently. 
 
 Talks by officials of police and public admini stration departments and informative audio-video 
lectures should be arranged at least once in a semester covering issues related to the safety of 
personal belongings, vehicles, personal information, ATM, special event safety, defensive 
sprays and so on.  
 
 Self-defense training for women studying and working on campus through tie-ups with 
training institutions / NGOs should be made a mandatory component of extra-curricular 
activities undertaken in HEIs.  Physical defe nse training can follow instructions on rape 
aggression defense model that focuses on strate gies like awareness, risk reduction and risk 
avoidance and hands-on self-defense techniques. 
 
 In the face of the increasing cases of sexual  harassment and violence against women, it is 
incumbent upon HEIs to institute a thoroughgoing support and education mechanism. HEIs 
can organized preventions programs in collaboration with student groups to: 
 Educate the campus community about sexual violence in the context of a university 
setting and engage people in a commitment to get involved when they observe risky 
situations. 
 Confront the oppressive stereotypes that are the basis for the disrespect that leads to 
interpersonal violence. 
 Talk about healthy relationships and healthy sexuality, emphasizing the importance 
of communication and respecting personal boundaries 
 Coordinate campus-wide awareness efforts, such as town hall meetings, lectures, 
and other open spaces for dialogue on sexual violence 
 In case of food outlets, canteens and messes, HEIs should ensure that standards of quality and 
hygiene are strictly observed and the food on of fer is certified through hygiene test report by 
expert doctor for foods, water and cleanings. Th is would a strong and effective bulwark against 
food poisoning and spread of food and water born diseases.  
 
 All universities shall prepare an exhaustive Code of Cond uct for students enrolled in 
departments or affiliated colleges and display it on institutional websites for compliance. A 
reference to such document must invariably be made in prospectus of HEIs where the student 
is enrolled.  
 
3. Safety of Students while they are on Excursion/ Tours/ Academic trips etc. 
 HEI should make sure that expedition activities are undertaken under the guidance and 
supervision of at least two trained teachers, of whom one is a lady teacher. The number of 
students who can collectively embark on such ex pedition can be adjusted in accordance with 
the multiple factors like duration of the journey,  the weather conditions, type of the route and 
manageability. In case number of students ex ceeds fifty, a qualified doctor with adequate 
supplies of medicines should be included in the entourage.  
 
 Institutions should work out the itinerary and travel plan well in advance and circulate them 
amongst the parents/guardians of the students who are setting out on journey. Any 
representation or suggestions made by pa rents in these regards can be taken into 
consideration in the interest of the successful and safe organization of expedition.

=== page 5 ===
5 | Page  
 
 It is mandatory for institutions to elicit consent letters from the parents/guardians of the 
students who are embarking on tour. Further, no excursion/ tours shall be undertaken without 
such insurance as would indemnify students against the various emergencies ad risks.  
    
 Before proceeding on tour all the students should  be properly briefed by the way of “training 
session” about the geography, climate, hazardou s locations and risk zones existing in the 
proposed destination, codes on environmenta l protection, emergency procedures and basic 
first aid. Teachers should fu rther remind the participants of the importance of safety 
precautions, team spirit and discipline. 
 
 The institutions should ensure that each student is medically fit to be a part of the excursion 
tour. 
 
 If the expedition involves camping, only such si tes should be selected as are designated for the 
purpose by various government agencies concerned. Further, the site should be free from 
hazards such as flooding, dangerous slopes, falling rocks and dead trees etc.  
 
 Prior permission should be obtained if tents etc are to be put up on private land. Tents should 
be erected sufficiently apart to prevent rapid spread of fire in the campsite 
 
 Students should be allowed to carry personal communication devices such as mobile phones 
and should be instructed to remain in constant touch with their parents / guardians. This 
would also facilitate casualty handling and communication in the event of an emergency