=== page 1 ===
Mukesh Patel School 
of Technology 
Management and 
Engineering 
 
Student Resource Book  
 
SRB applicable for below programs / batches: 
 
Sr. No. Program Batch 
1. B Tech – All Programs 2026-30 
2. MBA Tech – All Programs 2026-31 
3. M Tech – All Programs 2026-28 
4. MCA 2026-28 
5. Diploma – All Programs 2026-29 
6. Ph. D 2026-29

=== page 2 ===
SVKMS
NMIMS  Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies
-EHUNIVERSITY  Deemed-to-beLNIVERSITY
STUDENT RESOURCE BOOK
Part-l
SVKM's NMIMS.
Deemed-to-be
UNIVERSITY

=== page 3 ===
Message from Vice-Chancellor 
  
Congratulations, Welcome to SVKM’s NMIMS!   
 
You have joined an institution that has the legacy of developing some of the most successful professionals and industry 
leaders.  
  
NMIMS is ranked among India's top universities and has been awarded global and national accreditations at the highest 
level. Our School of Business Management is AACSB -accredited, and five of our Engineering programs are ABET -
accredited. You have joined the University, which has a successful track record of growth. We believe in sustaining the 
quality of education through our assurance of the learning process and by offering a wor ld-class learning experience. 
NMIMS strives toward excellence in all its  endeavors. NMIMS students and faculty have earned national and global 
recognition. Our research and industry partnerships are comparable to the best in the world. 
  
The four pillars of NMIMS building blocks are: (a) knowledge creation that is relevant and applied, helping Society to 
know the unknowns, demonstrating leadership and meeting expectations in knowledge creation, and ( b) enhancing 
teaching and learning through "Assurance of Learning" System, (c) making NMIMS known/recognized for its academic 
excellence and the most preferred institution of learning, and (d) aligning stakeholders and meeting their aspirations. 
NMIMS aims to work towards these building blocks through a culture of dialogue, collaboration, and mutual trust.  
 
The University's innovativeness is borne by many programs visualized in a value -driven manner. NMIMS has always 
believed in remaining relevant and, at the same time, engaging in knowledge generation and dissemination. NMIMS 
faculty today is an eclectic mix of young and young at heart, having academic and industry experience, and those with 
national and foreign qualifications. With this mix of faculty, you will have the opportunity to learn from NMIMS's ethos 
to develop socially sensitive professionals and live in harmony with the environment.  
  
NMIMS has a facilitative administrative and academic system. The Dean or Director of the School or Campus is the 
voice of NMIMS. There are appropriate channels and structures to respond to student grievances.  
  
The student resource book guides you on University rules and regulations and will help you navigate your journey here 
at SVKM’s NMIMS. During your stay at SVKM’s NMIMS, we would like to ensure clarity and transparency in our 
communication. The Student Resource Book (SRB) has been divided into three parts. Part I comprises the University 
information, rules and regulations alongwith required annexures that you would need to know. Part II has school -
specific details for your effective and smooth interaction with the school. Also listed are facilities provided by the 
institution. 
  
The SRB contains a Student Undertaking page at the end of the document, which you are required to sign and submit 
to your course coordinator by the suggested date. 
   
We would also like your support to maintain and enhance the University's image and uphold its values. We value your 
feedback.  
  
 
Vice Chancellor

=== page 4 ===
Content 
 
Sr. No. Details Page No. 
I PART I (Rules and Regulations)  
1.  About these Guidelines  1 
2.  General Guidelines  1 
3.  Attendance rules for all schools  7 
4.  Academic Guidelines  8 
5.  Internal Continuous Assessment (ICA) guidelines 9 
6.  Interdisciplinary Offerings  10 
7.  Choice-Based Credit System (CBCS) 10 
8.  NMIMS-Coursera Initiative 11 
9.  Examination Guidelines  12 
10.  Policy on Awards / Prizes and Dean’s /Director’s List  19 
11.  Guidelines for Scholarships 20 
12.  Guidelines for Admission Deferment / Admission Cancellation / Submission of Documents 
/Payment of Fees / Academic Break /Re-admission 21 
13.  Guidelines for De-registration of students who are not attending the classes  24 
14.  Library Rules and Regulations 26 
15.  List of E-resources  27 
16.  Guidelines for the Use of Computing Facilities 28 
17.  Guidelines for using the Student Portal 30 
18.  Feedback Mechanism   31 
19.  Mentoring Programme / Psychologist and a Counsellor 31 
20.  Rules for Participating in National/ International Level Contests 33 
21.  Guidelines for Annual Convocation / Degree Distribution Ceremony  33 
22.  Roles and Responsibilities of SVKM’s NMIMS University Students’ Council (NUSC) 34 
23.  Fee-Related Procedures 35 
24.  University level - Anti-Ragging Squad and Committee, Internal Complaints Committee & 
Ombudsman 36 
25.  Safety Guide for Students on Floods, Fire, and Earthquakes  39 
26.  List of website categories that are blocked 41 
27.  SVKM’s NMIMS INFOLINE (for Mumbai Campus)  42 
28.  People you should know 43 
 
 
Annexures for various Applications 
1. Intimation for Absenteeism 
2. International Student Exchange Programme  
a. Application form for NMIMS Students for Applying for Student Exchange 
Programme 
b. Application form – Exchange Students – Incoming  
c. Application form – NMIMS Exchange Students 
d. Student Exchange Programme – Undertaking 
e. Student Exchange Programme (Visa Application) 
 
3. Examination  
Application for availing the facility of a Scribe/Writer during Examinations due to 
Permanent /Temporary Physical Disability / Learning Disability 
4. Accounts  
a. Application for Duplicate Fee Receipt 
b. Application for Refund 
5. Admission - Migration Certificate 
6. Others 
a. Clearance Certificate 
b. Student undertaking with respect to the Student Guidelines 
44-62 
 
All rights reserved. No part of this document is reproduced or utilised in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical,  including photocopying, recording, or by information storage or retrieval 
system, without written permission from NMIMS. 
NMIMS or any of the persons involved in the preparation and distribution of this reading material expressly disclaims all and any contractual or other form of liability to any person in respect of the 
manual and any consequences arising from its use by any person in reliance upon the whole or any part of its contents. The information contained in this document was obtained from sources believed 
to be reliable. NMIMS does not accept any responsibility for such information and states that the manual is of a general nature only.

=== page 5 ===
1 
 
Student Guidelines 
(With effect from July 2026) 
1 About these Guidelines: 
1.1 These guidelines provide norms for the daily functioning of SVKM’s NMIMS and ensure appropriate usage of 
infrastructure and effective academic delivery for students. 
 
1.2 This compilation of guidelines comes into effect from July 2026 onwards and supersedes all other guidelines in respect 
of matters therein. 
 
1.3 These guidelines are applicable for all schools and campuses under NMIMS Deemed–to–be University located across 
the country. 
 
1.4 This document of NMIMS is the student guidelines, rules and regulations. While efforts are made to ensure uniformity 
& consistency  between th ese guidelines and the Rules &  Regulations of NMIMS . In the event of any dispute, the 
Students Resource Book will prevail.  
 
1.5 The management has the right to change the guidelines to meet the institutional objectives and the decision of the 
management will be binding on the students. Any such changes will be communicated to the students. 
 
1.6 SVKM’s NMIMS reserves the right to amend, modify, or revise any aspect of the programme, including but not limited 
to its curriculum, nomenclature of the Degree/Diploma, duration, mode of delivery, faculty, refund policy, evaluation, 
passing standards, and academic regulations, as deemed necessary.  In the event of any dispute or difference relating to 
the programme or these regulations, the decision of the Vice-Chancellor of SVKM’s NMIMS shall be final and binding 
on all concerned. 
 
1.7 If the University makes any changes to the guidelines of SRB, it will be communicated to the students as an addendum. 
 
1.8 Any dispute and/or litigation arising between student/s and the University/college/school shall be subject to the 
jurisdiction of the Mumbai Court only. 
 
2 General Guidelines: 
 
Code of Conduct: 
  
2.1 The cleanliness of the premises must be maintained by everyone in the SVKM’s  NMIMS at all points. 
 
2.2 Only drinking water is allowed inside the classroom. Eatables are strictly prohibited inside the classroom. 
 
2.3 The use of mobile phones, Meta Smart Glasses, or any similar electronic devices on campus is not permitted. Any 
student found using such devices shall be subject to disciplinary action in accordance with the regulations in force 
from time to time. 
 
2.4 The students are requested to park their vehicles outside the premises at the places notified by the  Local Authorities. 
SVKM’s NMIMS shall not bear any responsibility for the students' vehicles parked outside the premises.  
 
2.5 Any problem about  the administrative facility, faculty, classrooms , etc., must be addressed through the class 
representative, who will take it up with the course coordinator. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the student 
may approach in writing to the Assistant Registrar /Dy.Registrar/ Dean/Directors of the school/ Registrar, SVKM’s 
NMIMS. 
 
2.6 The mode of Communication with students is via the Student Portal / email /Notice Board. Students are advised to 
check the Student Portal/email/Notice Board at least once a day, and not rely on rumour or hearsay in any matter.  
 
2.7 Students are expected to use social media responsibly. The posting, sharing, or circulation of inappropriate, abusive,

=== page 6 ===
2 
defamatory, threatening, or offensive content concerning the institution, its members, or fellow students is strictly 
prohibited and may lead to stringent disciplinary action in accordance with University policies . The Social Media 
Policy is available on the SVKM’s NMIMS website. 
 
2.8 Any post, comment, or publication on social media, print media, or any other platform that defames or brings 
disrepute to the University shall constitute misconduct and may result in severe disciplinary action in accordance 
with University regulations.  
 
 
2.9 Students are expected to communicate respectfully at all times. The use of abusive, vulgar, obscene, indecent, 
derogatory, insulting, or otherwise offensive language, whether verbal, written, electronic, or communicated 
through online platforms, is strictly prohibited on campus and in all institution- related interactions. Any violation 
of this provision shall constitute misconduct and may result in disciplinary action in accordance with University 
policies. 
 
2.10 Students shall conduct themselves with dignity, r espect, and professionalism at all times. Physical misconduct, 
harassment, intimidation, aggressive behaviour, or any conduct that causes discomfort to others is strictly prohibited. 
Students are expected to respect personal boundaries and uphold the reput ation of the University. Violations may 
result in disciplinary action as per University policies. 
 
2.11  The student should ensure the receipt of the SVKM’s NMIMS email ID for official communication. 
 
2.12 In case of Lecture Cancellation, the course coordinator will inform said changes to class representatives/ respective 
students through the Student Portal /email /Notice Board. Class representatives will not arrange any extra lectures, 
guest lectures, or lecture cancellations directly with the faculty on their own. 
 
2.13 The students should not communicate directly with faculty members f or the selection of any elective course. They 
must route their option through Course Co-ordinators or Program Chairs. 
 
2.14 All students are provided with an Identity Card, which they are required to wear mandatorily. Entry is strictly 
through an Identity Card and will be monitored by the SVKM’s  NMIMS authorities.  A p enalty will be levied / 
action will be taken for this non-compliance. If the student misplaces the original ID card , a duplicate ID card will 
be issued by the school by paying a prescribed fee. An ID card is used for access control to the SVKM’s NMIMS 
campus. 
 
2.15 Students should make use of flap barriers (wherever deployed and operational) to enter/exit school premises. 
Biometric Print plus ID card is a mandatory requirement at SVKM’s NMIMS.  
 
2.16 Students must not use another student's ID card or allow their own ID card to be used by others. Any violation shall 
attract disciplinary action against both students as per University regulations. 
 
2.17 In case a student forgets to carry an ID card, they should approach security and complete the process to get the 
requested access. Any grievances related to the ID Card should be raised to biometricregistration@svkm.ac.in. 
 
2.18 Fire drills are demonstrated to all the students, and hence, students are requested to keep safety procedures in mind 
at all times. Fire extinguishers are placed in strategic areas to ensure the safety and welfare of everyone at SVKM’s 
NMIMS. Tampering with fire extinguishers or any part of the fire alarm system is a serious offence and shall attract 
punishment. 
 
2.19 Any person resorting to physical fights will be considered  ragging, and appropriate legal action will be viewed  
accordingly by the Disciplinary Committee. 
 
2.20 If any student during the tenure of  studentship has a police case/ complaint in his/ her name , he/she is liable for 
appropriate action by the management/disciplinary committee as per the rules and regulations in force from time to 
time.

=== page 7 ===
3 
 
2.21 SVKM’s NMIMS has a zero-tolerance policy towards misb ehaviour, discrimination of gender sensitivity,  racial 
discrimination, indulgence in unethical practices, including possession and consumption of drugs, alcoholic drinks, 
harassment, violence, non- obedience, non -compliance and any action that will bring di srepute/defame to the 
University, etc. by any student. The University shall take strict legal action against the defaulters in accordance with 
the rules & regulations in force from time to time.  
 
2.22 The University will reserve the right to take appropriate action  against all the defaulters , including outsiders, who 
shall be part of the above illegal act/s. 
 
2.23 Photography, filming, videotaping and audio -recording in the Class/ Campus / University is strictly prohibited. A 
student found guilty of the said act will be dealt with appropriately as per the rules and regulations of the University.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CODE OF CONDUCT LINE OF ACTION  
Alcohol and Other Drugs 
The unlawful possession, use, purchase or distribution of 
alcohol, illicit drugs, controlled substances (including 
stimulants, depressants, narcotics, or hallucinogenic drugs) 
or paraphernalia  o r the misuse of prescription drugs 
including sharing, procuring, buying  & selling  or using 
differently from the prescribed use or by someone other 
than the person for whom it was prescribed. 
 
a. With immediate effect, suspension/ rustication  from the 
University if the student is not able to justify/prove the 
reasonable ground for carrying or possessing the said 
drugs. 
b. Suspension from college pending an enquiry. 
c. If found guilty, concerned student shall be punished in 
accordance with the rules and regulations , which may 
include rustication from the school / campus / hostel. 
d. In case the student is involved and found guilty of selling 
the drugs, appropriate  legal action under the Narcotic 
Drugs Act 1985 will be taken. 
Assault, Endangerment or Infliction of Physical Harm 
Physical restraint, assault or any other act of violence or use 
of physical force against any member /staff/security of the 
campus or any act that threatens the use of physical force. 
 
Upon written complaint , with immediate effect  - Suspension 
from attending college pending an enquiry. 
Banners, Chalking and Posters 
Defacing of Campus property using Banners, Chalking, 
Posters, etc. 
 
Severe disciplinary action will be taken. 
Bullying, Intimidation, and Stalking 
Bullying. Bullying includes any electronic, written, verbal  
or physical act/body, gesture or a series of acts of physical, 
social or emotional domination that is intended to cause 
physical or substantial mental and emotional harm to 
another person or group. 
Intimidation. Intimidation is any body, gesture, verbal, 
written, or electronic threats of violence or other threatening 
behaviour directed towards another person or group that 
reasonably leads the person(s) in the group to fear for their 
physical well-being. 
Stalking. Stalking is engaging in a course of conduct, 
repeated acts or communicati on towards another person, 
including the unauthorised following, which demonstrate s 
either an intent to put another person in fear of bodily injury 
or cause the person substantial  mental and emotional 
distress. 
 
 
a. Upon written complaint with immediate effect - 
Suspension from attending college pending enquiry.  
 
b. Any person resorting to such an act will be considered  
ragging and strict appropriate legal action will be taken.

=== page 8 ===
4 
CODE OF CONDUCT LINE OF ACTION  
Discrimination, Including Harassment, Based On a 
Protected Class 
Discrimination, including harassment, based on an 
individual’s sex, race, colour, age, religion, national or 
ethnic origin, sexual orientation, gender identity or 
expression, pregnancy, marital status, medical condition, 
veteran status, disability or  any other legally protected 
classification. 
 
 
a. Upon written complaint with immediate effect Suspension 
from attending college pending enquiry. 
 
b. If found guilty, shall be punished in accordance with the 
rules and regulations, which may include rustication from 
the school / campus / hostel. 
Disorderly Conduct 
Excessive noise, which interferes with classes, school 
offices or other activities; Unauthorized entry into an area 
or a closed meeting. 
1 Conduct that restricts or prevents faculty, staff or 
student employees from performing their duties, 
including interruption of meetings, classes or events; 
2 Any other action(s) that result in unreasonable 
interference with the learning/working environment 
or the rights of others. 
 
 
 
a. Warning for first default. 
 
b.  If default continues/repeated defaulters students shall be 
abstained from attending the effective lecture/event. 
 
False Representation 
Provide false information or make a misrepresentation to 
any school office, forgery, alteration, or unauthorized 
possession or use of school documents, records, or 
instruments of identification, forged or fraudulent 
communications (paper or electronic mail). 
 
a. Upon knowledge of false representation the student shall 
be suspended wi th immediate effect from attending 
college  pending enquiry. 
 
b. If found guilty in the enquiry, shall be punished in 
accordance with the rules and regulations which may 
include rustication from the school/ campus / hostel. 
Fire Safety Tampering, interference, misuse, causing 
damage and/or destruction of fire safety and fire prevention 
equipment 
Severe disciplinary action will be taken. 
Theft, Vandalism, or Property Damage 
Theft, negligent, intentional, or accidental damage to 
personal or University / SVKM property/ies 
a. Suspension from attending college pending enquiry. 
 
b. Rustication from the school / campus / hostel. 
Unauthorized Entry or Access / Unauthorized Use of 
School Facilities or Services 
Unauthorized entry into or presence within enclosed 
SVKM’s NMIMS / SVKM buildings or areas, construction 
sites, and student rooms or offices, even when unlocked, is 
prohibited.  
 
a. Upon knowledge of the same concern student/s shall be 
suspended with immediate effect from attending college 
pending enquiry. 
 
b. If found guilty in the enquiry, concern student shall be 
punished in accordance with the rules and regulations, 
which may include rustication from the school / campus / 
hostel. 
Weapons and Fireworks 
Possession or use of firearms , including rifles, shotguns, 
handguns, air guns, and gas -powered guns and all 
ammunition or hand-loading equipment, knives etc. 
Possession or use of  fireworks, dangerous devices, 
chemicals, or explosives within the p remises of SVKM’s  
NMIMS / SVKM. 
 
a. Upon knowledge of the same, concern student/s will be 
suspended with immediate effect from attending college 
pending enquiry. 
 
b. If found guilty in the enquiry, concern student shall be 
punished in accordance with the rules and regulations, 
which may include rustication from the school / campus / 
hostel.

=== page 9 ===
5 
 
 
2.24 Discipline Norms and Penalty: 
2.24.1 A disciplinary committee is constituted in each school , to look into all cases of indiscipline related to 
students. The committee comprises the Chairperson / Head of the Department, one faculty member and 
one staff member. The committee will hear each case and recommend action to the Dean and then to the 
Vice Chancellor of the University. On approval by the Vice Chancellor,  action will be initiated by the 
school. For further details regarding committee members at the school level, please refer to Part 
II of the SRB. 
2.24.2 The woman Grievance Redressal committee constituted in each school comprises the Chairperson / Head 
of the department, one lady member (from faculty or staff), and two more members of the school. The 
committee will address all related issues and recommend actio n to the Dean and the University. On 
approval by the Vice Chancellor, appropriate action will be initiated by the school. For further details 
regarding committee members at the school level, please refer to Part II of the SRB.  
2.24.3 The SVKM’s NMIMS campus, including premises of all schools/colleges and hostels , is earmarked as 
a non-smoking zone. Possession and Consumption of alcoholic beverages / toxic materials/and cigarettes 
by students present on the campus under the influence of alcohol/ toxic materials/ addictive materials is 
a serious offence. Any student found consuming any objectionable material ( alcohol, illicit drugs, 
controlled substances , including stimulants, depressants, narcotics, or ha llucinogenic drugs)  will be 
rusticated from the hostel, school and the campus with immediate effect  
2.24.4 Impersonation will also lead to suspension pending the enquiry and, upon being found guilty, to 
rustication with immediate effect and subsequent deletion of the student’s name from the roll of the 
University after enquiry. 
2.24.5 Students indulging in Sexual Harassment will also be liable to strict disciplinary action as per University 
norms. Shall be suspended with immediate effect pending the enquiry. U pon being found guilty, the 
student shall be rusticated.  
2.24.6 In all matters of indiscipline and indecent behaviour , the Chancellor of the University w ill be the 
appellate authority. The ombudsman is appointed by the University, who would look into such cases 
referred by the Chancellor and their decision is final and binding. Violations , if any, on the part of the 
students will be dealt with as per the existing rules, regulations and provisions.  Depending on the gravity 
of the Act and the outcome of the enquir y, the student can be rusticated from the school. SVKM’s 
NMIMS will not be held responsible for any actions that will be initiated by the regulatory authority like 
police, corporation etc. 
 
2.25 Dress Code:  
 
Students are expected to maintain a neat, clean and professional appearance at all times while on campus. Attire should 
be appropriate for an academic environment and  reflect respect for the institution, fellow students, faculty, staff and 
visitors.  Clothing that is revealing, offensive, or displays inappropriate language, graphics or messages is not permitted.   
 
For all events of the School / University, including Guest lectures, seminars and conferences, attendance is mandatory 
and students are required to dress in formals, Institute blazer, Tie/ Cravat, and Lapel Pin. 
 
 
2.26 Punctuality 
2.26.1 Classes will begin on time. Late coming is not permitted. Faculty have the authority to restrict latecomers from 
entering the classroom. 
2.26.2 Students are required to be present for all events of the school/SVKM’s NMIMS University, including the 
Convocation, Sports Day, Republic Day, Independence Day, G uest lectures, Compulsory workshops, CEO 
Series, and other events as intimated on the Student Portal / N otice board/ email. A r ecord of attendance will 
be kept. The school/SVKM’s NMIMS reserves the right to declare compulsory attendance for any event on or 
off campus. Absenteeism i n events for which attendance is compulsory will be taken seriously and will be 
communicated / displayed on the Student Portal / N otice Board/ email from time to time and / or remarked on 
the transcript or any other decision by the management. 
2.26.3 Students are required to be in the city on all days of the term . If they are leaving the city for personal or 
institutional work, they are required to obtain prior permission from the HOD/Director/Dean. This applies even 
to those students who are representing the SVKM’s NMIMS for social, cultural and co-curricular events. 
2.26.4 Students are required to honour deadlines for submissions of projects, reports, assignments, forms and any 
other submission to the school/University or the faculty concerned. Students cannot approach faculty 
members or others to change or extend deadlines.

=== page 10 ===
6 
3.0 Attendance guidelines and Attendance rules : 100% Attendance in each course is expected. 
 
3.1 Attendance guidelines: 
3.1.1 A student is required to monitor his /her own attendance  regularly.  All doubts regarding attendance should be 
clarified with the concerned faculty within the appropriate time (at the end of each class, during recess or at the 
end of class hours of the day ). If the student is marked absent even when present, he/she should immediately 
inform the concerned faculty by submitting a written application informing of his/her presence (maintain a copy 
of it) and, if required, to justify his/her stand. 
 
3.1.2 Attendance report s of all the students would be displayed on the notice board / Student Portal monthly. If a 
student has any issue or finds any discrepancy in his/her attendance, he/she should inform the office in writing 
regarding the same within 3 days of the publication of the attendance record. No claim shall be entertained under 
any circumstances after that. No changes will be permitted once attendance reports are finalised. 
 
3.1.3 It is t he sole responsibility of the student to confirm his / her email ID  and parents' email ID with the school 
academic office. 
 
3.1.4 Parents of the students shall be informed of the attendance record of their ward if the student has less than 80% 
attendance monthly through email/ WhatsApp. Students have to  notify the office in case of a change in any 
contact information of their parents. Parents may be called to the school in person to discuss the consequences 
of remaining absent. 
 
3.1.5 Students must refrain from approaching the visiting and full-time faculty members for attendance-related issues. 
They must apply to the concerned coordinator for necessary approvals. 
 
3.1.6 If the student remains absent due to any medical issues, he/she should submit a medical certificate along with a 
copy of all the medical reports to the office within 3 days of resuming classes after medical leave. No certificate 
shall be entertained under any circumstances thereafter. 
 
3.1.7 Final attendance of the Trimester/Semester/Annual will be published on the Student Portal / Notice board after 
the end of the session. If the student has any issues regarding attendance will notify the Dean/Director of the 
campus in writing.  The Dean/Director will ensure that data is factual and will act accordingly. 
 
3.1.8 Attendance for Re-examination:  Students appearing for a re -examination shall be granted attendance in lieu 
of regular classes for the day on which the re -examination is scheduled. Accordingly, such students shall be 
marked present for all applicable subjects on that day.

=== page 11 ===
7 
3.2 Attendance rules for all schools  
 
To ensure satisfactory attendance and engagement, 100% attendance in all subjects/courses is expected. However, exceptions 
may be made for valid medical reasons, personal reasons, and participation in extra -curricular and co -curricular activities, 
placement activities, institutional work, and other approved activities. A maximum relaxation of up to 20% absence may be 
granted in such cases provided the overall attendance does not drop below 80% in each course.  
 
3.2.1 Eligibility for Examinations:  
 
Students who have maintained 80% or higher attendance in individual courses during a trimester/semester/annual term are 
eligible to appear for the respective trimester/semester/annual term-end examinations. 
 
Attendance is considered from the date of commencement of each semester/trimester /annual term. 
 
In case of any delay in the admission process of any particular student/ lateral admission case, attendance will be considered 
from the date of such admission. 
 
The decision taken by the University will be final and binding upon everyone.  
 
Attendance requirements are summarised hereunder: 
 
 
Attendance% 
(In Individual Courses) 
Remarks 
80% and above  
In individual courses 
Eligible to appear for Trimester/Semester/Annual term End Examinations. 
Below 80% in the individual 
courses. 
Subject to fulfilment of Re-admission criteria.  
Students will be required to take re-admission. Students can opt 
i) Re-admission in the same Semester/Trimester/Annual term 
OR ii) re -admission in the full year of the program in the subsequent 
academic year 
 However, 100% Attendance in each course is expected. 
 
3.2.2 All courses with a scheduled timetable, irrespective of whether they are credit courses, non -credit courses or 
ONLY ICA courses , must also be considered while finalising attendance defaulters. Attendance shall be 
determined based on the ratio of lectures conducted versus lectures attended, in the same manner as applicable to 
other credit courses.  
 
3.2.3 Students have to maintain a minimum attendance as prescribed by the respective statut ory/ regulatory bodies.  
 
Note: Please contact the school Course Co-ordinator /AR/ DR for any attendance-related queries within 3 days from the receipt of 
the attendance status.

=== page 12 ===
8 
4. Academic Guidelines 
 
4.1  Credit Structure 
Credit structure is defined in terms of contact hours assigned for various academic components of a program. This 
includes classroom lectures, tutorials, practical sessions, projects, seminars, lab work, group work and any other 
academic activity for which contact hours are assigned in the curriculum. The details are as follows:  
 
Trimester Pattern: For trimester pattern programs the credit specifications are as follows: 
Details Credit Equivalence in hours in  
10 weeks of Trimester 
Theory Courses 1 credit 10 hrs. 
Lab/Tutorial/Group/Presentation work 1 credit 20 hrs. 
Seminar  
(subject to schedule throughout trimester)    1 credit 20 hrs. 
Project work 1 credit 20 hrs. 
Internship 1 credit 40 hrs.  
Research paper/ dissertation 1 credit 20 hrs. 
 
Semester Pattern: For Semester pattern programs the credit specifications are as follows:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Workshop-based activities: Courses involving workshop-based activities require the engagement of students in hands-
on activities related to work/vocation or professional  practice. Every student is engaged in performing a skill -based 
activity related to specific learning outcome(s).  
 
# Community Engagement and Service: The Curricular component will involve activities that would expose students 
to the socio-economic issues in society so that the theoretical learnings can be supplemented by actual life exper iences 
to generate solutions to real-life problems. 30 hrs of contact time per credit in a semester along with 15 hrs of activities 
such as preparation for community engagement and service, preparation of reports, etc., and independent reading and 
study. Thus, the total learner engaged time would be 180 hours for a 4-credit course. 
 
4.2 Credit requirement to be eligible for the award of a degree: 
It is required to define a minimum and a maximum credit requirement for awarding the degree of the program, along with 
the range of credits of every program. Under any circumstances, a student has to secure a minimum number of credits for 
a particular program to be eligible to get the degree. 
Every programme has a minimum credit requirement in accordance with the applicable norms prescribed by the respective 
statutory/regulatory bodies, such as UGC, AICTE, PCI, BCI, COA, etc., generally aligned with a minimum of 40 credits 
per academic year or as otherwise specified by the concerned statutory / regulatory body.  
Any student seeking re-admission to a program shall be required to fulfil the minimum credit requirement prescribed for 
that program for the award of the degree, irrespective of any subsequent revision to the program structure of credits.  
Details Credit Equivalence in Hours in  
15 weeks of Semester 
Theory Courses          1 credit 15 hrs. 
Laboratory Course / Studio activities 1 credit 30 hrs. 
Tutorial Courses  
(Applicable for Technical Schools only) 1 credit 15 hrs. 
Workshop-based activities * 1 credit 30 hrs. 
Seminar / Group Discussion 
(Subject to schedule throughout the semester) 1 credit 15 hrs. 
Project work & Dissertation 1 credit 30 hrs. 
Internship (Max of six credits per semester) 1 credit 30 hrs. per week 
Field-based Learning/Practices / Projects  1 credit 30 hrs. 
Community Engagement and Service # 1 credit 30 hrs.

=== page 13 ===
9 
For example, if a  student enrolled in a four -year BBA program is eligible for the award of the degree upon successful 
completion of a minimum of 160 credits after four years, considering the requirement of 40 credits per academic year, 
irrespective of the fact that the total credit requirement of the program structure has a total of 162 credits.  
 
4.3 Term-end examination is a compulsory component. The mode of the Term End Examination will depend on the Course 
Learning Outcomes. 
 
4.4 Duration of examination  
4.4.1 Minimum duration of Mid -Term Examinations: 1 hr. 
4.4.2 Minimum duration of Term End Examinations: 2 hrs. 
4.4.3 Examination duration can also be more than the above-specified time as defined by respective schools.  
 
4.5 For all the programs, the weightage for each component will be specified by the Faculty and will form an integral part 
of the course outline  (as per specific requirement s of the school/program). The Faculty has the flexibility to formulate 
and implement an evaluation system with weightage specified in the course outline.  While approving the courses, the 
HOD/Area-in-charge and the Dean/Director/ Associate Dean will ensure that the evaluation components and weightage 
points assigned to each component are fair.  Such evaluation components should be announced to students before the 
commencement of course delivery. 
4.6 For grading purposes, the weightage mentioned by the faculty in the course outline will be applied for each component 
of evaluation, irrespective of the marks assigned to the said component for the examination. 
4.7 The minimum 15 number of students or 40% of the total number of students , to offer an elective course/s on the basis 
of the total number of students registered in that particular elective course. 
 
4.8 Project Guidelines will be as per the requirements of the program of each school. 
 
5. Internal Continuous Assessment (ICA)  
 
5.1.1 It is the sole responsibility of every student to ensure that he/she completes all the components of Internal 
Continuous Assessment. 
 
5.1.2 All components of ICA should be defined while designing the course syllabus by a faculty member.  Those 
components and their weightage should be shared with the students at the start of the 
trimester/semester/annual term. 
 
5.1.3 Conduct of ICA components:  A timetable for the conduct of ICA c omponents will be shared with the 
students by the school.   
 
5.1.4 ICA components Evaluation: All the students shall be informed of the component-wise marks obtained by 
them within seven days of the conduct of ICA components by the respective faculty member or via the 
students’ portal. Students are responsible for checking their marks on the portal.  Any discrepancies in ICA 
marks should be informed and resolved within two days of publication on the portal. 
 
5.1.5 Passing Criteria for ONLY ICA course: For a course that has only internal continuous assessment 
components and has no Term End Examination must  be considered as an ONLY ICA course. The passing 
criteria for such ONLY ICA courses will be at 40% minimum of total of ICA marks.  These passing norms 
may not apply to programmes where Regulatory bodies issue guidelines regarding  passing norms. 
 
If a stude nt does not satisfy the passing criteria of 40%, there will be no re -examination for Only ICA 
Courses. If a student does not pass only ICA course, he/she must take re -admission in the same 
trimester/semester/annual term of the subsequent academic year of the program, or may opt for re-admission 
for the entire year of the program, provided they fulfill the eligibility criteria for re -admission mentioned in 
SRB. The student who fails in any only ICA Course may not be allowed to appear in the Term End 
Examinations of other courses. 
 
 
5.1.6 Grace Marks:  Grace Marks will never be awarded on the ICA (Internal Continuous Assessment)  
component, irrespective of whether the course has TEE or only ICA components.  
 
5.1.7 ICA unfair practice penalties: The adoption of unfair means by the candidates during the ICA component 
examinations is treated seriously, and appropriate penalties are imposed after following the University’s

=== page 14 ===
10 
rules and regulations and principles of natural justice. 
 
a. The ICA component for which the unfair practice is reported, that component will get cancelled and will 
not be considered for evaluation.  
 
b. In case of a project/assignment, if the student is allowed to resubmit, the student will be awarded 50% of 
the total marks or actual marks, whichever is lower. For a group project/assignment, this applies to all 
students in the group.  
 
c.    Depending on the severity of the adoption of nature of unfair means, the University is liable to punish 
the student as deemed fit. 
 
d. Such student shall not be considered for Dean’s list and scholastic awards, student leadership positions 
on campus, final placement, and internship opportunities, amongst other possible actions by the School.  
 
Note: All disputes and representations related  to ICA unfair practice will be handled by the respective school -
level Disciplinary Committee headed by the Dean/Director and Program Head.  
 
5.1.8 General Guidelines: 
a.   In order to receive the degree, diploma, or certificate, the student will have to pass all the courses (Credit/Non 
Credit) of all the years.  
 
b. Grievance Redressal: In case a student is not satisfied with the marks or has any discrepancy with the marks 
received by him/her in any ICA component of a Course, he/ she may be directed to the c oncerned faculty 
member via Program Head / Dean / Director. The final marks obtained in ICA components should be submitted 
on the student portal before the start of the Term End Examinations. 
 
c. In case of any disputes/differences, the decision of the University shall be final and binding on the students.  
 
d. Modification in Criteria/rules: On the recommendation of the Board of Studies of the School and the Board 
of Examinations, the Academic Council shall have the sole discretionary right to modify all or any of the 
above criteria at any time without prior notice.  
 
6.  Interdisciplinary Offerings (Applicable for Mumbai campus only): –  
 
The interdisciplinary approach of selection of courses across different streams enables students to get knowledge of other 
domains. It is applicable for a Master’s level program or final year of 4/5 years’ programs. The interdisciplinary courses 
will be offered in two sessions as Fall Session (II week of July – III week of Nov) and Winter Session (I week of 
January – III week of March). The students from all schools are allowed to choose a maximum of 2 courses, 1 course 
from the fall session and 1 course from the winter session. Students may opt for the course from the bouquet of courses 
offered as an additional credit course o r in lieu of any courses offered by the home school. The details of the courses 
offered and registration /date will be intimated to the students by the Home school (The students admitted to this school) . 
The students have to register through the Students portal only.  Attendance shall be considered as per the rule mentioned 
in SRB. 
 
7. CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM (CBCS) (Applicable for Mumbai campus only): - 
 
The CBCS offering is a concept that is in line with the international academic system.  Students may opt for the course 
from the bouquet of courses offered in CBCS in lieu of a course/s dropped (as defined in their school’s course structure) 
or take the courses offered by their Schools. The students are also allowed to choose CBCS courses as an additional subject 
for extra credit as a credit course or audit course. The CBCS offerings of courses will be opted from a UG Program to a 
UG Program and a PG Program to a PG Program across all schools where the grading system is the same. The UG students 
of 1st year and PG students of Term I of 1st year are not eligible to opt CBCS courses. Students studying in the school where 
the teaching/exam scheme is governed by a statutory body can take only extra credit courses.  Attendance shall be 
considered as per the rule mentioned in SRB.

=== page 15 ===
11 
 
 
8. NMIMS-COURSERA INITIATIVE:- 
 
SVKM’s NMIMS, with its strong industry connect, has been responsive to the needs of the industry and profession.  The 
curricula in various programs have been addressing these requirements regularly.  Another initiative that NMIMS has 
taken is the NMIMS-COURSERA initiative to embed and sharpen AI skills of students emerging from various programs. 
Salient features of the initiative are given below. 
 
a. Students will be issued a Coursera license which will be valid for one academic year only.  
b. Courses have been curated from the Coursera offering to embed and later apply skills to different programs.  
c. Curated courses will be credited and will be a part of the program structure. This implies that completion of 
Coursera courses , which are a part of the program structure, has to be completed in the respective 
trimester/semester/annual term . If a student does not complete the curated course, progression rules of the 
respective school will apply, which include ‘ Non-promotion of a student who may obtain ‘F’ grade in such 
course’. 
d. Coursera and NMIMS will assess each student jointly. Equal weightage will be given to the 2 assessments.  
e. Besides the curated courses which are a part of the program structure, students can complete any course that will 
enhance their domain as well as hard, soft and life skills. For completion of courses beyond the ones that  are 
curated, only Coursera will issue a separate certificate. 
f. The initiative is faculty -led. Faculty will engage one hour every week to address the queries of  students, give 
assignments and assess periodically.  
g. Attendance shall be considered as per the rule mentioned in SRB. 
 
Students are advised to take maximum benefit of this initiative, which will benefit them in their careers. 
 
 
Note: For any academic grievance, the student may write to grievance.academic@nmims.edu.

=== page 16 ===
12 
9. Examination Guidelines:  
Any breach of the following requirements relating to examinations and assessments, whether committed intentionally or 
unintentionally may be regarded as "misconduct", and would be dealt with, under the Disciplinary procedure of SVKM’s  
NMIMS. Severe penalty would be imposed on the students who are found to be involved in the adoption of unfair means  
(UFM) in the examinations. 
 
9.1 Discipline in the Examination Hall 
9.1.1 Students must know their Roll Number and Student No.  and carry their respective University ID card during exams.  
Admission to the examination hall may be denied if University identity card is not produced. 
9.1.2 Students who are eligible to write the term end examination/re-examination should be present in the Examination Hall 
at least 30 minutes before the scheduled time of the commencement of the examination. All the students, who arriv e 
in the examination hall after the scheduled time of the commencement, will not be permitted to appear for that 
examination. Such students, will be required to seek written approval from the Dean/Director of the respective school 
/ Campus or faculty member nominated by the Dean/Director to allow to appear at the examination (up to 30 minutes 
from the scheduled time of the commencement of the examination). Students who report for the examination after 30 
minutes of commencement of examination, will not be allowed to write examination under any circumstances. 
Students who report late to the examination would be permitted to appear at the examination in exceptional 
circumstances only after they produce a written approval from the said authorities on applicati on to be made by the 
student. Such a student who has reported late will not be eligible for benefit of extra time due to late arrival as well as 
the loss of time in getting approval from the Dean of the school in such a case. 
9.1.3 Students are not permitted to enter the examination hall after half an hour of the commencement of the examination. 
Students are not permitted to leave the examination hall until half an hour after the start of the session and attendance 
recording or during the last ten minutes of the session. 
9.1.4 Students, who are not in their seats by the time notified, will not, be permitted to appear for the examination.  
9.1.5 Students should ensure that all their bags and other personal belongings are deposited in the designated area usually 
near the Supervisor’s table or outside the examination hall, at their own risk. SVKM’s NMIMS will not be responsible 
for the safety and security of the same. 
9.1.6 A student, who fails to attend an examination on  the date, time and place published in the timetable, will have an 
‘Absent’ remark in attendance and grade sheet. Opportunity for re -examination will be given according to the rules 
and regulations. No special re examination will be conducted for such students. 
9.1.7 Students should occupy their respective seats as per the seating plan displayed on student portal/notice board/door 
plan.  
9.1.8 Students are required to have and keep ready their University Identity Cards issued by SVKM’s  NMIMS and they 
must produce these same for verification by the room supervisor during the examination. Students not having the said 
identity card with them during the examination may be denied permission to appear for the examination subject to 
approval from the Dean/Director of the School / campus. 
9.1.9 Every student present must sign against his / her Student number on the attendance sheet provided by the Room 
Supervisor. 
9.1.10 Students should specifically go through the instructions given on the top of the question paper and on the first two  
pages of the answer book. They are of utmost importance. 
9.1.11 On the front page of the answer book , the students should write only the name of the program, 
specialization/stream if any, trimester/semester details and course / subject for which examination is being held, 
number of supplementary sheets attached to the main answer book. Any extra writing on the front page or 
anywhere in the answer book will be treated as act of unfair means and will be dealt with as per the rules. 
9.1.12 QUERY REGARDING QUESTIONS IN THE EXAMINATION QUESTION PAPER: If a student has any query 
as regards to the contents of the question paper, he / she should bring the same to the notice of the examination hall 
supervisor without disturbing others in the examination hall. 
9.1.13 Students are forbidden to (i) bring any books, notes, scribbling papers, mobile phones, smart watch, health band with 
data storage communication facility, in ear Bluetooth speaker, micro scanner, micro phone, micro camera, micro 
speaker, memory based modules, Wi -Fi enabled modules, earbuds, storable/programmable or financial calculators, 
laptop, Bluetooth devices , AI glasses or any other similar electronic gadgets/devices/things unless specifically 
permitted. Any such material found in the possession of the student will be confiscated. The University reserves the 
right to keep such material in its custody till the time investigation into alleged violation of rule/malpractice is 
completed. (ii) smoke in the examination hall, (iii) bring eatables/ drink s in the examination hall (iv) speak or 
communicate in any manner (gestures or otherwise) to any other student, while the examination is in progress, and (v) 
take with them any answer -book, written or blank, while leaving the examination hall. All Such act s amount to the 
adoption of unfair means by the student/s concerned and strict action will be taken against them. The supervisors/ 
authorized persons are authorized to frisk the students; needless to mention that the female student shall be frisked by 
the lady supervisor.  
9.1.14 Any method to bribe the examiner/s by attaching currency notes or letters or making an appeal inside the answer book

=== page 17 ===
13 
or by any other means of communication is strictly prohibited and will result in serious action being taken by the 
University. 
9.1.15 The answer books of the term-end examinations will be QR coded and  therefore, students should NOT write his/her 
name, Roll No., Student No. etc. , anywhere in the answer -book and / or reveal his / her identity in any form in the 
answers written by him / her or anywhere in the answer book. Writing these details or putting signature amounts to 
revelation of identity. Use of religious invocation or any writing that is not relevant to the answers anywhere in the 
answer-books will be treated as an attempt to reveal identity and will be treated as an act of adoption of unfair means. 
9.1.16 While underlining of answers for focusing attention is permitted, use of varied inks, except for illustrations and figures 
must be avoided. DO NOT use any symbol like encircling the question or using colour arrows for ‘P.T.O’. These will 
all be considered as attempts to readily identify the specific answer-book. 
9.1.17 Students should neither tear any sheet/s from the answer-book provided nor shall attach unauthorized additional sheet/s 
to the same. All answer -books / supplementary sheets , whether written or blank , should be returned to the room 
supervisor. Carrying the answer book / any part of the answer book out of the examination hall will be treated as 
against the rules and appropriate action will be taken against such candidate/s. 
9.1.18 Students should not write anything on the question-paper, unless there is any typographical error/ change to be carried 
on the question paper on room supervisor’s  instructions. Else, it will be treated as an act of use of unfair means. 
9.1.19 Exchange of stationery, writing material, mathematical instruments, question paper etc. is strictly prohibited and will 
attract a penalty. 
9.1.20 If students want anything, they should approach the Room Supervisor without dist urbing other students. The student 
should not leave the examination hall on any account, without surrendering his/her answer book. 
9.1.21 Students will not be allowed to leave the examination hall during the examination and especially during the last ten 
minutes. They should not leave their seats until answer-books from all students are collected by the Room Supervisor. 
9.1.22 A student who disobeys any instructions issued by the Invigilator’s / Room Supervisor or who is guilty of rude or 
disobedient behaviour is liable for disciplinary action to be taken against him / her by the University.  
9.1.23 Students suspected to be guilty of any of the aforesaid acts will be allowed to write their examination only after 
giving an undertaking in writing that the decision of the University in respect of the reported act of unfair 
means will be binding on them. 
9.1.24 In case of students whose term of Semester / Trimester is not granted due to non-fulfilment of attendance norms 
as mentioned in the Student Resource Book (SRB), such students, if appeared for the Term End Examination 
despite the communication, his/her appearance will be treated as null and void.  
 
9.2 Guidelines for Appointment and Availing the facility of Scribe for the Persons with  Disabilities (PwD) (Divyangjan) 
(permanent or temporary disability) students during examinations conducted by SVKM’s NMIMS: 
9.2.1 A student who may have a permanent or temporary physical disability may apply to SVKM’s  NMIMS for 
appointing a scribe for the examinations, well in time.  
9.2.2 The student should submit an application for the purpose along- with ‘medical certificate’ from a ‘Registered 
Medical Practitioner’ to that effect (Annexure 6 ) with the rubber stamp of the Registered Medical Practitioner 
on the certificate well in advance. The application should be approved by the respective school Dean/Director 
before forwarding to the examination section. 
 
9.3 In the following cases of students, the medical certi ficate of only Government Authorized Agencies would be 
accepted for Mumbai Campus namely:  
b) Hearing Impaired Students: Ali Yavar Jung National Institute for the Hearing Handicapped.  
c) Physically Challenged Students: All India Institute of Rehabilitation of Physically Handicapped  
9.3.1 As regards the student from other campuses, the Government Authorized Agencies from those cities would be 
accepted. 
9.3.2 The scribe/ writer should be arranged by the student himself/herself well in advance i.e. at least one week before 
the examination and inform to the examination office of the University. The University will make arrangement 
alternatively if possible. 
9.3.3 The scribe should be one grade junior in academic qualification than the student if from the same stream.  
9.3.4 Since the student will be helped by a scribe, compensatory time of 20 minutes per hour will be allowed to such 
students. E.g. for the examination of two hours, 40 minutes compensatory time will be allowed.   
9.3.5 The Examination in Charge of the School/Campus  will have powers to resolve issues, if any, in this regard. 
She/he will be authorized to make/ accept any last minute changes of scribe under exigencies.  
9.3.6 The said student will sit in a separate room under supervision.  
 
9.4 Facilities relating to examinations for the students having Learning Disability (Dyslexia, Dysgraphia and Dyscalculia) 
for the purpose of examinations: 
9.4.1 At the time of all written examinations, all L.D. students would be given permission to use a writer. In such a 
case, the student concerned should s ubmit application in writing along with all the necessary documents well 
before the commencement of the first examination. Also such students would get additional time of 20 minutes

=== page 18 ===
14 
per hour.  E.g. for the examination of two hours, 40 minutes extra time will be allowed. 
9.4.2 These students would be given concession for not attempting the questions of drawing figures, maps, Draft, 
etc. where necessary in the written exams. 
9.4.3 Concession will be given for mistakes in spelling or mathematical calculations/graphs.  
9.4.4 L.D students who have failed to pass a subject/s will be eligible for grace marks up to 3 per cent of the aggregate 
marks of the subjects in which he/she has appeared. These grace marks would be for one or more subjects.  
9.4.5 In case of L.D students, the medical certificate of only competent Government Authorized Agencies would be 
accepted. For Mumbai campus medical certificate from Sion Hospital / Nair Hospital only would be accepted.  
9.4.6 The said medical certificate must be produced at the beginning of the academic year to the admission dept. 
Retrospective benefit will not be given to any student in case certificate is submitted after declaration of results. 
 
9.5 Rules as regards cases of adoption of Unfair means by the candidates during the University examination are as under: 
9.5.1 If during the course of an examination, any candidate is found resorting to any of the following acts, he/she shall 
be deemed to have adopted unfair means at the examination. The adoption of unfair means by the candidates 
during the examinations is treated seriously and appropriate penalties are imposed after following the 
University’s rules and regulations and principles of natural justice.  If a student is found or suspected of using 
unfair means during an examination, the Examination invi gilator/Room Supervisor shall immediately prepare 
report of the incident, obtain the student’s statement and undertaking regarding the alleged use of unfair means, 
collect the relevant material, and permit the student to continue the examination in a fresh answer book. 
Examination Department shall issue a Show Cause Notice requiring the student to submit a written explanation 
and appear before the University’s Unfair Means Inquiry Committee on the date and time communicated by the 
University. The Committee shall examine the case, including the available evidence and the student’s 
representation in person, and recommend an appropriate penalty in accordance with the University Examination 
Rules.  
The decision, upon approval by the competent authority, shall be  communicated to the student. The student’s 
examination result shall be withheld, until the inquiry proceedings are concluded.  
9.5.2 The broad categories of Unfair Means resorted to by students of the University Examinations and the Quantum 
of Punishment for each category thereof: - 
 
S. No. Nature of Unfair Means adopted Quantum of punishment 
1 
A student is found in possession / making use of any 
electronic device (including mobile phone, smart 
watch, health band (with data storage/communication 
facility), In ear Bluetooth speaker, micro -scanner, 
micro- phone, micro-camera, micro-speaker, memory-
based modules, Wi -Fi enable modules, any other 
electronic gadgets etc.) or any other item of such type 
or communication gadget in the Examination Hall. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in full. *(This quantum will also 
apply to the following categories of adoption of unfair 
means at Sr. No. 3 to 13 in addition to the one prescribed 
thereat.**) 
2 
A student is found in possession / making use of any 
unauthorized material like 
written/printed/photocopied note/written on the dress, 
clothes or body parts, written on the chair, table, desk 
or any other furniture items or room walls, floors etc. 
on Universityproperties, 
calculator, scale, eraser, handkerchief, instrument box, 
any other material relevant to the  examination 
irrespective of whether it was used or not used. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in full. * 
3 
Possession of another student’s answer book, 
supplementary sheet or question paper / hall ticket 
with markings, answers or formulae written on it 
Exclusion of both the students from concerned 
University Examinations for one additional examination. 
** 
4 
Possession of another  student’s answer book, 
supplementary sheet or question paper / hall ticket 
with markings, answers or formulae written on it and 
Actual evidence copying from that. 
Exclusion of both the students from concerned University 
Examination for two additional examinations. ** 
5 Mutual/ Mass copying. Exclusion of all the students from concerned University 
Examination for two additional examinations. **  
6 Smuggling in or smuggling out of answer books as 
copying material. 
Exclusion of both the students from concerned University 
Examination for two additional examinations. **

=== page 19 ===
15 
7 Smuggling in of answer books based on the question 
paper set at the examination. 
Exclusion of the student from concerned University 
Examination for three additional examinations. ** 
8 Smuggling in written answer book as copying material 
and forging the signature of supervisor. 
Exclusion of the student from concerned University 
Examination for four additional examinations. ** 
9 Attempt to forge the signature of the supervisor on the 
answer book or supplementary sheet. 
Exclusion of the student from concerned University 
Examination for four additional examinations. ** 
10 
Interfering with or counterfeiting of University seal or 
answer books or office stationery used in the 
examination with the intention of misleading the 
authorities. 
Exclusion of the student from concerned University 
Examination for four additional examinations. ** 
11 
Answer book or supplementary sheet written outside 
the examination hall or any other insertion in the 
answer book. 
Exclusion of the student from concerned University 
Examination for four additional examinations. ** 
12 
Insertion of currency notes/ bribing or attempt to bribe 
any of the person connected with the conduct of the 
examination. 
Exclusion of the student from concerned University 
Examination for four additional examinations. ** (Note: 
This money shall be credited to the students Welfare Fund.) 
13 
Using obscene language/ violent threats inside the 
examination hall by a student at the University 
examination to room supervisor/ any other authority. 
Exclusion of the student from concerned University 
Examination for four additional examinations. ** 
14 Impersonation for a student or impersonation by a 
student in University or other examinations. 
Permanent Expulsion from the University (both the students 
if the impersonator is a University student) 
15 
Revealing the identity in any form (Name, Roll No, 
G.R. No., religious invocation etc. in the main answer 
book and/ or supplementary sheet). 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in the subject concerned during the 
examination of which the identity was revealed. 
16 Found something written on the body or on the clothes 
while in the examination. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in full. 
17 
Making an appeal to the examiner/ any person 
connected with the conduct of examination by using 
any mode of communication. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination for the subject during the 
examination of which student made an appeal. 
18 A student is found to be snatching the answer book of 
other examinee/s. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in full. * 
19 A student is found to be tearing or tampering his/her 
answer book inside or outside the examination hall. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in the subject concerned. 
20 
A student is found to be disrupting the smooth conduct 
of Examination in any way because of which other 
students were unable to write the examinations for 
substantial amount of time. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in full. * 
21 
A student is found communicating or attempting to 
communicate directly or through a relative, guardian, 
friend or any other person with an examiner with an 
object of influencing him/her in the award of marks. 
Violation of code of conduct - strict warning. 
22 A student has used abusive or obscene language in the 
answer book. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in the subject concerned. 
23 
 A student is found to be talking/chatting to a 
person/another student inside  or outside the 
examination-hall while going to the Bio - break, for 
drinking water etc.  during the examination period.  
Providing help to other student outside the 
examination hall during the examination period (Even 
though the said student has not appeared at the said 
examination/s). 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in full. *

=== page 20 ===
16 
24 
Dictating answers from outside, to the student who is 
sitting inside the examination hall.  
Receiving answers from student outside the 
examination hall. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in full. * 
25 
A student leaves the examination hall without handing 
over his/her answer book to the invigilator concerned 
and takes it away with him/her. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in the subject concerned. 
26 
A student is found to have sought/ received help from 
other students or giving help to other students through 
passing some written material/electronic 
device/answer book/supplement /question 
paper/examination stationery pertaining to the 
questions set in the paper concerned. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in full. * 
27 
A student is found to be guilty of swallowing or 
destroying any note or paper or any other material 
found with him/her and thereby destroying the 
evidence. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in full. * 
28 
A student is guilty of assault or inflicting any injury on 
invigilator on duty or the other staff working at the 
examination. 
Permanent Expulsion from the University. 
29 
The offence which has been detected after the 
Examination/declaration of the result/award of the 
degree. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in full,* and the Grade sheet & 
Degree Certificate to be treated as null & void and to be 
recalled. 
30 
A student involved in malpractices at Practical / 
Dissertation / Project report / Online Examination / 
Proctor examinations    
Shall be dealt with as per the punishment provided for the 
theory examination. 
31 All other malpractices not covered in the aforesaid 
categories. 
Shall be decided by Unfair Means Inquiry committee on 
individual merits of case. 
32 Second/subsequent case(s) of UFM reported against a 
student in the same/different academic year. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the 
University Examination in full.*   
Enhanced punishment can be imposed on such students. This 
enhanced punishment may extend to double the punishment 
provided for the offence, when committed at the second or 
subsequent examination. 
33 
Student involved in uses of Unfa ir Means more than 
two occasions in different examination sessions 
(Semester/Trimester). 
Permanent Expulsion from the University. 
 
Note 1 *The term “Annulment of Performance in full" includes performance of the student at the theory 
examination, but does not include performance at term work, project work with its term work, oral or 
practical and dissertation examinations, unless malpractice used thereat. The Term "Annulment of 
Performance in full" also does not include performance at Internal Continuous Assessment. 
Note 2 Student found in possession means a student, reported in writing, as having been found in possession of 
unfair means material by the invigilator or member of the vigilance Committee or Examination Squad or 
any other person authorised for this purpose, in this behalf, even if the unfair means material is not produced 
as evidence because of it being reported as swallowed or destroyed or snatched away or otherwise taken 
away or spoiled by the student or by any other pers on acting on his behalf to such an extent that it has 
become illegible , provided report to that effect is submitted by the Invigilator /Sr. Supervisor  or any other 
authorized person to the Controller of Examinations or Dean or any officer authorized in t his behalf.  
Note 3 Material related to the subject of examination means and includes, if the material is produced as evidence 
(excluding electronic gadgets), any material certified as related to the subject of the examination by a 
competent person and if the material is not produced as evidence or has become illegible for any of the 
reasons referred to in clauses, above, the presumption shall be that the material did relate to the subject of 
the examination. 
Note 4 Refusing to give written statement, refusing to receive show cause notice, absenting from enquiries - final 
decision of UFM Inquiry Committee will be binding on the student. 
Note 5 Students should note that material found with him / her during the examination would be confiscated and 
would be returned back after completion of inquiry on the basis on application.

=== page 21 ===
17 
Practical/Dissertation/Project Report Examination:  
 
9.5.3 Student involved in malpractices at Practical/ Dissertation/ Project Report examinations including act of 
similarity index shall be dealt with as per the punishment provided for the theory examination.  
9.5.4 The Competent Authority, in addition to the above mentioned punishments, may impose a fine on the 
student declared guilty. 
 
 
9.6 Examination Grievance Redressal Mechanism (as regards evaluation of answer books/answer scripts) 
(Providing Soft/ Photo copies of answer books/answer scripts to the candidates and Revaluation) 
The Grievance Redressal Mechanism as regards evaluation of answer books /answer scripts and timelines to be followed for 
the same would be as under: 
9.6.1 The Grievance Redressal Mechanism will apply only to the ‘term-end Examinations’ of the University.  
9.6.2 The above mechanism will not apply to practicals / Labs / oral examinations/ viva/ jury/ projects/ MCQ’s in 
online exams/assignments/ dissertation/ presentation/ field work etc.  
9.6.3 The application for Redressal of Grievance can be made online only through the Student Portal (Result Portal 
– SAP). Applications made through offline mode would not be considered under any circumstances. 
9.6.4 All the students will be informed the course/module -wise marks obtained by them in the ‘Internal Continuous 
Assessment’ and ‘Term-end Examination’ by the Examination Office, on the date of declaration of result of the  
examinations of the respective class/es. The date of declaration of result shall be the date on which examination 
result is made live on ‘Student Portal’ of the University. 
9.6.5 Under the Grievance Redressal Mechanism, a student can apply for: 
a) Verification (retotalling of marks) of Answer books/Answer Scripts : Under this process, on  online 
application of the student, the University verifies that (i) all the answers in the respective answer book are 
evaluated, (ii) marks have been allocated to each answer and carried forward to the first page of the answer 
book properly and (iii) totalling of the marks on the first page of the answer book has been carried out correctly. 
OR 
b) Re-evaluation of the Answer book/Answer Script: Under this process, a student will have to first apply for 
the soft copy/ies/ photocopy/ies of the answer book/s and subsequently apply for re -evaluation of the said 
answer book/s after going through the answer book/answer  script and synoptic answers. While making 
application for re-evaluation, such a student will have to compulsorily write specific question/s that needs to 
be re- evaluated with specific reason/s as to why he/she is seeking re -evaluation of answer/s. It will be 
mandatory for such a student to write clear and specific reason/s for the request of re-evaluation of the 
desired questions in the light of the synoptic answers. Answer books/Answer Scripts will not be reevaluated 
in case student does not provide clear and specific reasons or if the required column/space is left blank in the 
revaluation application. In such cases, fees paid will not be refunded. Students should not make any appeal 
/ indicate expected marks in the application; it will be treated as use of unfair means. 
c) Students will not be eligible to apply for revaluation if they do not apply for a Photocopy(ies) of their 
answer script/s. 
d) During the revaluation process, only the answers to the questions for which the student has raised a grievance, 
accompanied by valid reasons stated in the revaluation application submitted through the student portal , will 
be re-evaluated. If a student has challenged specific question/s, only those particular answer/s will be reviewed 
in light of the reasons provided. The  original marks awarded to all other answers (which have not been 
challenged) will remain unchanged. 
e) No other mode of communication regarding revaluation will be accepted. Students are advised not  to send 
separate emails or applications about revaluation to any other authorities within the School, Campus, or 
University. 
 
9.6.6 After the result declaration on Student Portal (Result Portal – SAP), if a student is not satisfied with the marks 
awarded to him/her in the Term -end Examination/s, in any course/module, s/he may apply for the Grievance 
Redressal within the prescribed number of days as per the example mentioned in the table below : 
 
Activity under Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism Time Limit Date of Declaration of Result 
Example:  17th October  
Application for Verification (retotalling 
of marks) of Answer- book /Answer 
Script 
Within 3 days from the date of result declaration 
including holidays Example: 20th October  
Application for Photocopy/ Softcopy of 
the Answer Script 
Within 2 days from the date of result declaration 
including holidays Example: 19th  October

=== page 22 ===
18 
Receipt of the softcopy of Answer-book 
/Answer Script 
Latest on the 2nd day from the date of result 
declaration including holidays  i)A nswer Script/s 
will be available on student portal immediately on 
successful submission of application.     ii) Link of 
softcopy of answer scripts will also be available on 
the payment receipt sent on students registered 
email ID. 
Example: 19th October  
 
Application for Re -valuation of the 
answer scripts 
Within 3 days from the date of result declaration 
including holidays  
Example: 20th October till 
16.00 hrs. 
 
9.6.7 No application, received after the prescribed number of days as mentioned in the table above, shall be entertained 
for any reason whatsoever. 
9.6.8 Copies of the  answer scripts provided by the University are only for Grievance Redressal mechanism and do not 
have any evidentiary value.   
9.6.9 The Photocopy (ies) so obtained by the examinee/candidate shall be for his/her exclusive and relevant use only. 
Any other person cannot use the said answer script/s to dispute or challenge the quality of assessment or quantum 
of marks assigned to the answers there-in. 
9.6.10 Any deviation from the above procedure by the student in any form shall be construed as an unfair act making 
him/ her liable for appropriate punishment by the University. The decision of the University shall be final in this 
regard.  
9.6.11 Application for Redressal of grievance received after the stipulated due date shall not be entertained or 
accepted for any reason whatsoever. Also application will be deemed to be complete only after payment of 
requisite fee. 
9.6.12 The application received from a student for re -evaluation shall be forwarded to the designated Examiner or 
Subject Expert. The Examiner/Expert will review the relevant portions of the answer book specifically in light of 
the reasons provided by the student in the re -evaluation application. Re-evaluation shall be carried out only for 
the particular question(s) that the student has identified and substantiated with valid reasoning. The m arks 
awarded to all other answers, which were not challenged by the student, shall remain unchanged.  
 
After following the process of re -evaluation under the Grievance Redressal, effect will be given to change in 
original marks after re-evaluation, if any, as under: 
 
a) Wherever the difference in marks is less than or equal to 20 percent (20 included) (irrespective of whether 
marks increase or decrease during revaluation process), marks awarded after revaluation will be 
considered as final and communicated to the student concerned. 
 
In such cases the marks originally obtained by the candidate in the subject/s shall be treated as null and void.  
 
b) Wherever the difference in marks is more than 20 percent (i.e. 20.01 and above) (irrespective of whether 
marks increase or decrease during revaluation process).  
 
Second revaluation of the said answer book shall be done by the examiners/subject experts from approved panel 
and best marks between first revaluation and second revaluation shall be considered as final marks obtained in 
the subject/s (fractional marks if any shall be rounded off to the next integer).  
 
In such cases the marks originally obtained by the candidate in the subject/s shall be treated as null and void.  
 
i. The revised marks obtained by a candidate after first and/ or second re-evaluation as the case may be, as accepted 
by the University shall be taken into account for the purpose of amendment for his/her result only and the said 
result shall be communicated to the stude nt/s. Students may note that after carrying out revaluation, the marks 
obtained may increase or decrease or may not change. 
 
ii. The examiner/s for re -evaluation will be appointed by the Controller of Examinations from the panel of 
examiners/experts. 
 
iii. The above difference in marks (between original evaluation and first/second re -evaluation) in percentage term 
shall be with reference to the maximum marks of the term end examination of the respective subject.

=== page 23 ===
19 
iv. The marks awarded by examiner/s in re-evaluation (as mentioned above) and amendment in result, if any shall be 
final and binding on the student and shall not be challenged.  Once the re-evaluation result is declared, request to 
retain the original marks will not be entertained under any circumstances. 
 
v. The whole process of Redressal of grievances shall be completed within a period of 15 working days from the 
date of receipt of application for Redressal of grievances. 
vi. In any case, the photo copies of re-evaluated answer-books shall not be provided to the student/s. 
 
9.7 Grace Marks Rule 
9.7.1 A candidate failing in one or more subjects will be given grace marks up to 2 per cent of the marks on the aggregate 
marks of the subjects in which he / she has appeared, subject to maximum of 6 marks overall and in individual 
subject not more than 3% of maximum marks allotted to the subject. 
9.7.2 The subject/s in which Grace marks will be given will be based on the data of the examination of the  
semester/trimester. The decision of the University in this matter will be final. 
9.7.3 Grace marks will be awarded only for term -end examination component of regular and re -examination.  Grace 
marks will never to be awarded on ICA (Internal Continuous Assessment) component.  
 
9.8 Issuance of statement of grades / transcripts (refer to the University website for more details) 
All students shall receive a Statement of Grades upon com pletion of each academic year. The name appearing on the 
grade card will be based on the information provided by the student at the time of admission. Any request for re -
issuance of grade cards due to changes in personal details after the completion of the  first year will be subject to 
applicable charges as per the university’s prescribed norms. 
 
General Guidelines: In order to receive the degree, diploma, or certificate, the student will have to pass all the courses 
(Credit/Non-Credit) of all the years.  
a. In case of any disputes/differences, the decision of the University shall be final and binding on the students.  
b. Modification in Criteria/rules: On the recommendation of the Board of Studies of the School and the Board of 
Examinations, the Academic Council shall have the sole discretionary right to modify all or any of the above criteria 
at any time without prior notice. 
 
Kindly refer Part II of SRB for rules of respective schools for Internal Continuous Assessment / Term End 
Evaluation, Grading system, Passing criteria, method of calculation of CGPA, Re-Examination, exceptional cases – 
medical etc. 
(To download the examination related formats go to the website nmims.edu → School → Campus → 
Academics → Examination). 
 
Note: If any change in examination system by the university, it will be communicated to the candidates. 
 
10. Policy on Award / Prizes and Dean’s / Director’s list: 
10.1 One prize will be awarded where the number of students in the batch/stream is between 01 and 20, two prizes will 
be awarded where the number of students in the batch/stream is between 21 and 59, and three prizes will be awarded 
where the number of students in the batch / stream is > 60.  
10.2 The criteria for award of prizes will be highest CGPA obtained by the students in the examinations of all the years 
of the program on programme completion.  
10.3 For the above purpose, the count of students at the final year of the programme will be considered.  
10.4 In case of exactly the same CGPA obtained by two or more students for a particular rank, same medal may be given 
to the students and second and third (Silver & Bronze) medal may be given to the next ranking students.  
10.5 Rankings would always be decided at University level.  
10.6 Students should have passed all examinations in single attempt.  
10.7 Lateral admission cases may be considered for ranking purpose  
10.8 Students obtaining F grades/ATKT/ involved in unfair means or any misconduct will be ineligible to be listed in 
the Rank Holder List and Dean’s/ Director’s list.  
10.9 The students who opt for Stude nt Exchange program in any trimester/semester would be considered if he/she is 
eligible as per above criteria. However, performance at the partner University shall not be considered for award.  
 
10.10 Dean’s/ Director’s List: 
10.10.1 10% of the batch (top 10% students) on the basis of highest CGPA will be considered to be eligible to be 
in Dean’s/ Director’s List and will get a certificate at the end of the programme.  
10.10.2 The Dean’s/ Director’s list would be for each programme/ stream at each campus.

=== page 24 ===
20 
 
11. Guidelines for Scholarships: 
 
11.1 Each year , there are several student awards and scholarships announced for different schools/programs  of 
SVKM’s NMIMS (as applicable school/campus-wise). 
 
11.2 Students are advised to apply for awards and participate in the process enthusiastically.  
 
11.3 Students are also advised to keep a good performance track record if they wish to apply for these awards. Students 
obtaining “F” in any subject or with a record of misconduct or a record of low attendance will be automatically 
disqualified from the awards process. 
 
11.4 Certificate of merit to be given by the Dean at the school level. 
 
11.5 The students of SVKM’s NMIMS can avail national scholarship through the National Scholarship Portal (NSP) 
(https:// scholarships.gov.in/) under some of the following schemes: 
• Central Sector Scheme of Scholarships for College and University students -  Department of Higher 
Education 
• Merit-Cum-Means Scholarship For Professional And Technical Courses Cs - Ministry Of Minority Affairs 
• Post Matric Scholarship Schemes Minorities CS - Ministry Of Minority Affairs 
• Prime Minister's Scholarship Scheme For Central Armed Police Forces And Assam Rifles  
 
11.6 The students can also apply for various other  schemes through the NSP , depending on their category and 
eligibility. For example, AICTE –  Pragati Scholarship Scheme for Girl Students (Technical Degree), PM USP 
Special Scholarship Scheme for Jammu Kashmir and  Ladakh, etc.  All the scholarships offered by UGC are 
available for students to apply.  
 
11.7 A student who wishes to apply for a scholarship will have to go through the school's academic office.

=== page 25 ===
21 
 
12. Guidelines for Admission Deferment  / Admission Cancellation / Submission of Documents  / Payment of fees / 
Academic Break / Re-admission 
 
12.1 Admission Deferment: The following rules are applicable to all the programs of SVKM’s NMIMS. 
 
c. Eligibility for admission Deferment: 
Only those candidates who have paid the full fee or got an approval for part payment can apply for admission 
deferment. 
The candidate has to submit an application for ‘admission deferment’ in admission department before the 
commencement of that program stating the reasons for admission deferment.  Admission deferm ent can be 
approved only for first year. 
 
d. Who can apply: 
• Serious medical illness. 
• Serious family-related reasons. 
 
The application needs to be submitted to the admission department, along with all the supporting documents for 
‘Admission Deferment’ consideration. 
 
An applicant who fails to obtain confirmation from the Admission office of his/her deferment of admission will be 
deemed to have forfeited his/her position and will be deregistered from the course admitted to.  
 
e. Process for Admission deferment: 
i. Deferred admission may only be granted to first-year students who have paid the required non-refundable 
enrolment deposit. 
ii. The admission department will scrutinise  all the applications and forward them with comments to the 
concerned authorities for approval.  The request to defer the offer of admission will be reviewed on case 
to case basis and will be granted depending on the reason stated,  along with the supporting documents.  
SVKM’s NMIMS decision with respect to this will be final and will not be challenged. 
iii. Offer of admission deferment, if not taken in the subsequent year, will lapse, and the fee paid will not be 
refunded.  Further, the applicant, if they still want to apply to SVKM’s  NMIMS, has to undergo the 
admission process again as a fresh applicant.  
iv. The letter of deferment of admission will be issued by the admission department to the applicant. 
v. Students who are found to have applied to other colleges and institutes during their time away from 
SVKM’s NMIMS will have their admission revoked, and fees will not be refunded. 
vi. Financial aid offers cannot be deferred. Students must reapply for financial aid.  
vii. Admitted ‘Transfer’ students are not eligible for deferred admission. 
viii. Deferrals are not automatic and, if granted, a non -refundable deposit is required to hold a place in the 
following year’s entering class. 
ix. Once the program has commenced, then even though the applicant may not have attended the classes, 
still he/she will not be ‘eligible’ for ‘admission deferment’. 
x. The deferment year shall be c onsidered to include for the purpose of determining the maximum 
permissible duration for the completion of the program.  
 
12.2 Admission Cancellation procedure: 
For cancellation of admission, the student needs to apply online for cancellation of his / her seat along with the 
original fee receipt and cancelled cheque (having the account holder's name, either the parent's  or the student's 
personal account) to the admission department (if cancellation is before commencement of the programme).   
 
• The first-year candidates who have paid the fees for the academic year can withdraw their  admission and be 
eligible for a refund as per the SVKM’s NMIMS refund policy, as  informed and agreed upon during the 
admission process. 
• The student who wishes to withdraw admission should fill the application form using the URL  
https://nmims.edu/admission-cancellation available on our website nmims.edu. A withdrawal request can be 
applied for only through this link. 
• Request before commencement: the admission department will process the document with the necessary 
approvals. 
• Request post the commencement: the candidate will have to get the Clearance /No dues from all the concerned 
departments of the School.

=== page 26 ===
22 
• Once the process is completed, the refund of the fees (if applicable) shall be processed.  
• Refund of fees, if any, will be credited to the bank account details provided by the applicant in the application. 
If any dues are to be collected, that will be deducted before a refund of the fees. 
 
12.3 Submission of certificates/mark sheets: 
A student has to submit all the relevant documents/certificates / mark sheets as per the offer letter issued by SVKM’s 
NMIMS.  Non-submission of such mandatory documents after the stipulated time declared by the admission department 
will lead to the cancellation of admission of the concerned student, and the admission fees will NOT be refunded. 
 
If a student has submitted documents and a discrepancy is found during verification, the admission would be 
cancelled, and the fees would be forfeited. 
 
12.4 Payment of fees: 
 
12.4.1 The promoted students for the subsequent years are required to pay the fees as per the email received from the 
Accounts department.  A late fee will be levied if the fee is not paid within the due date. 
12.4.2 Non-payment of fees  within the stipulated time , including the late fee period , will attract cancellation of the 
studentship from that program. 
 
12.5 Academic break: 
The following rules are applicable for all the schools of SVKM’s NMIMS. 
After commencement of any programme, if a student wants to take a break for certain valid reason, then he / she can 
do so as per the following norms : 
i. The academic break can be granted to any student by respective Dean/Director of School/campus.  
ii. The maximum period for an academic break is one year only.  
iii. In the executive programmes is upto two years. This will be allowed subject to Deans approval.  
 
12.5.1 Eligibility for Academic Break: 
 
An academic break can be granted to any student for any of the following reasons: 
a. Serious personal medical reasons involving hospitalisation, if required and supported by documents.  
b. Serious ‘family’ related issues. 
c. Financial constraints. 
d. In the executive programme, temporary transfer to another country/city or Financial crisis/Maternity/ shift of 
duties/additional assignments at the workplace. 
 
The Dean/Director of the respective school will approve the academic break and forward the application of the student 
to the concerned departments for the necessary process and record. 
 
 
12.5.2 The academic break can be granted to any student at best twice during the programme as long as the total 
period of academic break does not exceed one year and not exceeding the validity period of that programme. 
      Students will be required to take re-admission in case of an academic break; a student can opt 
Re-admission in the same Semester/Trimester 
OR 
Re-admission in the full year of the program in the subsequent academic year 
 
12.5.3 Payment of Fees for the academic break: If the student has informed the Dean regarding academic break 
before the commencement of the relevant year and has not paid the total fee for that year, then once the 
academic break is granted, the student can pay the total fee (100%) prevalent at that time when he / she seeks 
re-admission. 
a. If a student wants to take an academic break after the commencement of the acad emic year, but he / she 
has not attended the classes and if the fee is not paid, then while seeking re -admission he/she has to pay 
the total fee (100%) plus 25% of the total fee  prevalent at the time of re- admission as a re-admission fee 
to continue his/her studentship. 
 
b. If the student has paid the total fee for the entire year and then sought the academic break after 
commencement of that academic year in the middle of semester / trimester/annual term, then he/she has to 
pay 25% of the total fee prevalent at the time of re-admission towards re-admission in the subsequent year.

=== page 27 ===
23 
 
 
 
c. If a student has approval for an academic break on health grounds and has less than 20% attendance, the 25% 
fee for re-admission could be waived off as the student has not availed any facility of the institute and has not 
attended classes due to health reasons. The Dean / Director of the school may forward such cases to the VC 
office for approval.  
 
Academic break Fees to be paid at the time of admission after 
the academic break 
• Informed before the commencement of the 
academic year. 100% total fee prevalent. 
• Informed after commencement, not attended 
classes and fees not paid. 100% total fee + 25% readmission (prevalent). 
• Informed during the semester / trimester fees 
not paid for the current year. 100% total fee + 25% readmission (prevalent). 
• Informed during the academic year and fees 
paid for that year. 
25% of total fees as readmission fees prevalent 
that year of the readmission. 
 
12.6 Re-admission rules: 
A student can seek re-admission in the next academic year, in case he / she fails to fulfill the criteria mentioned under 
passing standards in SRB.  For this purpose, he / she has to pay 25% of the total fee prevalent at th e time of re-
admission for that program. 
 
Students can take re-admission in the said year of the program only once.  He/she can take re-admission in different 
years/term as long as the total period of the program does not exceed the validity period of that program  as per the 
statutory/regulatory body.  Admission to the subsequent years is subject to the maximum duration permissible for 
completion of the program (in years).  Such admissions will be at the student ’s own risk of non- completion of the 
program during the maximum permissible duration (in years). 
 
If a student takes re- admission in a particular academic year and is not promoted again  to the next academic year , 
either as per the passing standards of the respective program or for any other reason as per academic rules, then the 
student will not be given a second chance for re-admission in the same year of the program. Please contact the school 
Course Co-ordinator /AR/ DR for any academic-related queries. 
 
The procedure for depositing and redemption of credits shall be as per the UGC(Establishment and Operation of 
Academic Bank of Credits in Higher Education) Regulations, 2021, as amended from time to time. Students who 
have earned the requisite credits and exited from the UG programme at a designated level may be re-admitted the 
programme at the next eligible level before the expiry of the accumulated credits, subject to the maximum permissible 
period of seven years from the date of admission to the programme. 
 
12.7 Re-admission to zero session program (discontinued program): 
 
12.7.1 Program discontinued from the first year of the program in the subsequent academic year.  
12.7.2 Students who are eligible for Re-admission in the first year of the said program. 
12.7.3 Student will get two options as stated below 
a. Student can seek re-admission in another program of the same level at the same school/campus 
OR 
b. A student can be transferred to the other campus in the same program to continue their studies . 
 
12.7.4 As per SRB guidelines , the student has to pay re -admission fees of 25%  of the total fees of the 
program/campus where the student wants to continue his / her study.

=== page 28 ===
24 
 
13. Guidelines for De-registration for the students who are not attending the classes with Full/Partial Fee Payment for 
that academic year. 
 
Case 1 : First-year admitted students.  
Condition: Students whose partial fees are unpaid and do not report or attend the classes (zero attendance).  
 
Action: After one month of commencement of classes (as per the Academic Calendar), formal communication from the 
Dean/Director to be sent to the student and parents informing them about attendance requirements and bal ance fee payment 
obligations. If the student does not wish to study further, a formal cancellation application must be submitted within a week 
by the respective student/parents.  
 
i. Upon submission of the cancellation application by the student/parents , the respective School shall initiate module 
cancellation in SAP and then the School/Admission Dept. will update the admission cancellation status in SAP within 
the next 2-3 days.  
Additional formal communication from the Admission Dept. to be sent to the student and parents to apply for the fee 
refund, if applicable. After receiving the fee refund application, the Accounts Dept. to be informed so that the fee reversal 
can be given effect in SAP.  Fees will be refunded as per UGC Fee Refund Policy.   
 
ii. If a student fails to submit a cancellation request  within a week from the formal communication received from the 
Dean/Director, the cancellation process will be initiated by the School/Admission Dept., and it will be deemed that the 
student is not interested in continuing the studies.   
 
Additional formal communication from the School/Admission Dept. to be sent to the student/parent through 
their all personal & Official Email IDs , and b y post Registered AD or Speed post, stating that the admission is 
cancelled due to non-receipt of the cancellation application within a week and now the student and parents have 
to apply for the fee refund, if applicable. After receiving the fee refund app lication, the Accounts department to be 
informed so that the fee reversal can be given effect in SAP. 
Fees will be refunded as per UGC Fee refund Policy. 
Case 2 : Students enrolled in higher terms (i.e. 2nd yr. onwards) 
Condition : Student does not report to the respective School within one month from the date of registration in any academic 
term, and the full or partial fee is unpaid with zero attendance. 
Action: After one month of commencement of classes (as per the Academic Calendar), formal communication from the 
Dean/Director to be sent to the student and parents informing them about attendance requirements and balance fee payment 
obligations. If the student does not wish to study further, a formal cancellation application must be submitted within a week 
by the respective student/parents.  
 
i. Upon submission of the cancellation application by the student/parents, the respective School shall initiate module 
cancellation in SAP and then the Admission Dept. will update the admission cancellation status in SAP within the next 
2-3 days.  
 
ii. If a student fails to submit a cancellation request  within a week from the formal communication from the 
Dean/Director, the cancellation process will be initiated by the School / Admission Dept, and it will be deemed that the 
student is not interested in continuing the studies.   
 
Additional formal communication from the School is to be sent to the students and parents through their all personal 
& Official Email IDs , and by post Registered AD or Speed post, stating that the admission is cancelled due to non-
receipt of the cancellation application within a week. Accordingly, the cancellation process has to be initiated by the 
School/Admission Dept.

=== page 29 ===
25 
Case 3 : Students enrolled in any term/s  
 
Condition: Student does not report to the respective School for more than 21 days at a stretch at any point in time  in any 
academic term without any prior intimation to the Dean / Director / Program Chair / HOD / DR / AR / Course 
Coordinator or any other concerned authority, irrespective of fee payment status. 
 
Action: After 21 days of continuous absenteeism at a s tretch, at any point in time, formal communication from the 
Dean/Director is to be sent to the student and parents informing them about attendance requirements. If the student does not 
wish to study further, a formal cancellation application must be submitted within a week by the respective student/parents.  
 
i. Upon submission of the cancellation application by the student/parents , the respective School shall initiate 
module cancellation in SAP and then the Admission dept. will update the admission cancellation status in SAP 
within the next 2-3 days.  
Additional formal communication from the School/Admission Dept. is to be sent to the students and parents through 
their all personal & Official Email IDs , and by post Registered AD or Speed post,  to apply for the fee refund, 
applicable for 1st year students only, provided eligible for refund as per UGC Fee Refund Policy. After receiving the 
fee refund application, the Accounts Department to be informed so that the fee reversal can be given effect in SAP.  
 
ii. If a  student fails to submit a cancellation request  within a week from the formal communication from the 
Dean/Director, the cancellation process will be initiated by the School/Admission, and it will be deemed that the 
student is not interested in continuing the studies.   
 
Additional formal communication from the School / Admission Dept. to be sent to students / parents through 
their all personal & Official Email IDs , and by post Registered AD or Speed post, stating that the admission 
is cancelled due to non-receipt of the cancellation application within a week, and now the student and parents 
have to apply for the fee refund applicable for 1 st year students, if eligible as per UGC Fee Refund Policy . After 
receiving the fee refund application, the Accounts Department to be informed so that the fee reversal can be given 
effect in SAP.

=== page 30 ===
26 
14. Library Rules and Regulations:  
14.1 Use of the Library is conditional on observance of the Rules and Regulations. Users must comply with these and 
any reasonable request or instruction issued by library staff. Anyone failing to do so may be excluded from the 
Library and/or incur a fine. The Librarian reserves the right to refer any breaches of the Rules and Regulations 
and/or improper behaviour towards library staff for consideration within the terms of the appropriate SVKM’s 
NMIMS disciplinary procedures. 
14.2 Access to the SVKM’s NMIMS  Library is restricted to faculty /staff and students of the SVKM’s NMIMS who 
have a current ly valid identification card issued by SVKM’s NMIMS  and to such other persons as may be 
authorized by the Librarian. 
14.3 Students must carry their SVKM’s NMIMS student ID card, and faculty / staff must carry their SVKM’s NMIMS 
staff identity card to get entry and to use the Library and must produce this when required by an authorized person. 
This card must be used only by the member to whom it is issued. 
14.4 Bags and other personal possessions should not be left unattended for security reasons . The Library is not  
responsible for damage to or theft of private property. 
14.5 Silence is to be maintained in library areas. The use of mobile phones in the Library is strictly prohibited. Phones 
should be either switched off or set to silent mode. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in a fine 
and/or exclusion from the Library. Violati ng the rules will lead to a student’s penalty and /or three week 
suspension. 
14.6 The consumption of food and beverages (except for bottled water) and personal audio equipment are not permitted 
in the Library. 
14.7 Photography, filming, videotaping and audio-taping in the Library are strictly prohibited. 
14.8 Personal equipment should not be used without the prior permission of the Librarian. 
14.9 Users are required to comply with copyright regulations as displayed by the photocopiers.  
14.10 Data retrieved from the Library's electronic resources /tools like plagiarism check software may not be used for 
purposes other than teaching, research, personal , educational development, administration and management of 
SVKM’s NMIMS and development work associated with any of  those mentioned above. Use of the data is not 
permitted for consultancy / services leading to commercial exploitation of the information for work of significant 
benefit to the employer of students on an industrial placement or part-time courses. Users must also comply with 
the specific requirements of individual data providers. Passwords must never be revealed to others.  
14.11 Removing any material from the Library must be appropriately authorized and recorded. Damage to or 
unauthorized material removal of material  constitutes a severe offense and may lead to a fine or disciplinary 
action. 
14.12 Borrowing entitlement: Two books for ten days. One -time renewal is possible if the book is not in demand.  As 
the Library is RFID enabled, the issue of the books will be done at self-check-in kiosk only. 
14.13 A fine of Rs.3.00 per day per book is levied on overdue books. Students can check their account details online in 
OPAC (Online Public Access catalogue) and be  notified of due by email. If fines or charges are outstanding, 
borrowing rights will be withdrawn, and passwords for accessing electronic services  will be withheld until those 
fines are paid. Reference books, Journals / magazines and Audio/Video material are strictly to be used / viewed 
in the library only. 
14.14 Users are responsible for material borrowed on their cards . They will be required to pay for any damage to, or 
loss of, material borrowed at replacement cost, plus an administrative charge. Borrowing rights are withdrawn 
while the payment is outstanding.  
14.15 Students are expected to maintain a neat, clean and professional appearance at all times while on  campus.  
14.16 Access to libraries and/or borrowing rights may also be withdrawn temporarily if fees/charges in other parts of 
the SVKM’s NMIMS are outstanding. 
14.17 The award of SVKM’s NMIMS qualification will be deferred until all books and other library materials have been 
returned and outstanding fines/charges paid. 
14.18 For a list of electronic resources / Databases refer annexure. 
14.19 All library users should take care of pandemic precautionary measures.

=== page 31 ===
27 
 
15. List of E-resources subscribed by SVKM’s NMIMS across all campuses 
 
Sr. 
No. Database Category Name of Database 
1. LIBRARY DATABASE/OPAC Koha (AMC) 
2. LANGUAGE LAB Wordsworth 
3. 
Plagiarism Check Softwares 
Turnitin 
4. DrillBit 
5. 
e-JOURNAL DATABASES 
EBSCO 
6. Economic and Political Weekly 
7. JSTOR 
8. Current Science 
9. Ergonomics in Design 
10. Communication Art 
11. Design Journal 
12. 
Engineering DATABASES 
DELNET 
13. IEEE 
14. IET Journals 
15. NPTEL 
16. 
e-Books DATABASES 
Pearson E-Books 
17. e-KUMBH 
18. UGC e-BOOKS 
19. 
RESEARCH DATABASES 
CMIE:Prowess IQ 
20. EventStudyTools 
21. EViews 8 
22. ISI Emerging Markets 
23. SPSS: AMOS 
24. STATA 
25. COMPANY DATABASE Capitaline AWS 
26. 
STATISTICAL DATABASE 
IndiaStat 
27. EPWRF India Time Series 
28. 
LAW DATABASES 
SCC Online 
29. Live Law 
30. CASE STUDY DATABASE Harvard Business School Publishing 
31. FINANCE LAB Bloomberg 
32. 
SWAYAM / NDLI 
SWAYAM 
33. National Digital Library

=== page 32 ===
28 
 
  
16. Guidelines for the Use of Computing Facilities: 
 
16.1 SVKM’s NMIMS invests significant resources in the provision of computing resources for the students. In order to 
ensure maximum availability, computing resources must be used in a responsible way. Students are responsible for 
ensuring that these resources are used in an appropriate manner. All inappropriate websites are blocked for student 
access. The list of blocked websites is dynamically updated based on their defined global category. If any speci fic 
website requires to be accessed that is blocked with inappropriate  content, request to send an email to 
ITHelpdesk@nmims.edu. We will check the content of the website and found appropriate for access ; necessary 
access will be granted. 
16.2 You are strongly advised to read these guidelines & regulations carefully. Failure to comply will result in the 
withdrawal of your rights to use these facilities and may lead to further disciplinary action. Please also note th at the 
regulations and guidelines are subject to change without any prior notice. The latest version of this document will be 
available from the Computer Centre. 
16.3 Internet access for students will be as per the SVKM’s NMIMS policy. Any change request has to be routed through 
the Registrar in writing. 
16.4 Food and/or beverages are allowed only in the cafeteria. Food and/or beverages (except drinking water)  will not be 
permitted in the Computer Centre. Smoking is not permitted on the Campus premises.  
16.5 It is important to note that all the SVKM’s NMIMS  premises are deployed with CCTV surveillance equipment and 
all the areas of the premises are recorded 24x7. 
16.6 It is important to note that all SVKM’s NMIMS is monitoring the network 24x7. All actions and logs are stored and 
recorded. SVKM’s NMIMS has the rights to record all actions by students on the network and use them appropriately. 
16.7 The students of SVKM’s NMIMS  are provided with computing facilities to support their learni ng and research 
activities. Their use for any other purpose that interferes with these primary aims , or that otherwise acts against the 
interests of the SVKM’s NMIMS , is prohibited. In the event of non -approved usage of the computing facilities, 
SVKM’s NMIMS reserves the right to withdraw access to computing facilities at any time.  
16.8 The use of SVKM’s NMIMS computing facilities for students' commercial gain is prohibited. 
16.9 Not to use/install third-party software to bypass campus Network security policies. It i s prohibited and may lead to 
further disciplinary action. 
16.10 Students residing in college hostels are not to touch or tamper with the WiFi routers and other network infrastructure 
installed at hostels. If any such incidents are found, they may lead to disciplinary action. 
16.11 Computer Centre facility will be provided on priority to the students of the concerned programs, where using a Laptop 
is not compulsory. 
16.12 Students are not allowed to connect personal pen drives/ Laptops to the systems /smartboard installed in the 
classrooms. 
16.13 All students will be given SVKM’s NMIMS email id on Microsoft Office 365 and internet authentication id. They 
are permitted to access the internet in the computer centre or on their own laptop through this id and password only. 
Action will be taken against any misuse of the internet and email Id is seen. 
16.14 Students will get a Microsoft email id for official email correspondence and to use MS Teams for online lectures and 
regular updates from University/School/College. 
16.15 Do not provide sensitive personal information (like passwords) over email. 
16.16 Students will get 50 GB of space in OneDrive to store documents for education purposes. 
16.17 The use of computing facilities is governed by various applicable IT Acts, laws enacted by the Government of India 
(or any competent authority set up by the Government of India) and the rules formulated by the SVKM’s NMIMS . 
16.18 It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that the student’s activities do not contravene these or any other laws.  
16.19 Students using personal laptops or any other devices for access ing campus infrastructure should have updated with 
the latest operating system (Windows / Mac) and antivirus patches. 
16.20 Students must comply with all requests  or instructions issued by any Information Systems staff with respect to the 
use of SVKM’s NMIMS computing facilities.  
16.21 Improper behaviour towards staff  in the computer lab and/or while using computing facilities  will result in  
disciplinary action. 
16.22 SVKM’s NMIMS endeavours continually to provide a high level of service with  regard the computing facilities. In 
case there is some problem with any of the services, students should lodge a written complaint in the  Complaints 
Register available in the Computer Lab. No action will be taken on any verbal complaint. 
16.23 The Information Systems Group will regularly make various announcements regarding the availability and use of the 
computing facilities. Such announcements will be communicated to you through notice boards/ email placed in the 
Computer Lab as well as Student Notice Boards/ emails/Students Portal. You must regularly check the notice boards/ 
email and plan your use of the facilities accordingly. 
16.24 The failure of any element of the computing service will not be accepted as a valid excuse of failure to reach an 
acceptable standard in assignments or examinations unless no other reasonable method of carrying out the work was 
available. 
16.25 Disciplinary Proceedings: In the event of a breach of these regulations, your access to some or all of the computing 
facilities may be withdrawn depending on the outcome of disciplinary proceedings  submitted by respective

=== page 33 ===
29 
 
  
Disciplinary Committee. This may seriously affect your ability to complete your course of study satisfactorily.  
16.26 If any student comes across any security incidents, please contact reportsecurityincidents@svkm.ac.in  
16.27 These guidelines describe the reasonable and appropriate behaviour required by the Regulations for the Use of 
Computing Facilities at SVKM’s NMIMS.  
16.28 Use only your own login id and password and don’t  allow the password of any account issued to you to become 
known to any other person. If you allow another person to use your account, it must be in your presence, under your 
supervision and only for assistance or collaboration. You remain responsible for t hat person's use of your account 
and must identify that person to the SVKM’s NMIMS authorities if any breach of University regulations is suspected 
in connection with that use. 
16.29 It is r ecommended that a strong password be at least 8 characters long. It should not contain any of your personal 
information – specifically your real name, user name, or even your company name. It must be very unique from your 
previously used passwords. It should not contain any words spelled completely. 
16.30 Use of any faculty member's  user name and password to access the IT infrastructure , including smartboards is 
prohibited and may lead to disciplinary action. 
16.31 You should not copy or share others’ data resulting in data theft of any kind under the IT Act. Any act of such nature, 
if found then the concerned student shall give an explanation as to the said act amounts to theft. If the authority does 
not find the explanation given as satisfactory, then the said student shall be penalised as per the rules and regulations 
framed by the University from time to time.  
16.32 Do not use or adopt any name or alias or user reference, whether real or fictitious, other than your own. 
16.33 Request to be placed only for the required resources or access rights that you need. 
16.34 Once logged in, do not leave IT facilities unattended in an unlocked room. You must log out at the end of each 
logged-in session unless prevented by system failure. Failure to do so may leave the account open for others to use. 
The SVKM’s NMIMS accepts no responsibility for any loss to a user consequent upon a failure to log out correctly 
at the end of a session. 
16.35 Removal, borrowing, connecting,  or disconnecting of any IT equipment is not permitted. Neither deliberately 
introduce any virus, worm, Trojan horse, or other harmful or nuisance program or file into any IT facility or network 
/ campus, nor take deliberate action to circumvent any precautions taken or prescribed by the institution to prevent 
this. 
16.36 Do not in any way cause any form of damage to the SVKM’s NMIMS IT facilities nor to any of the accommodation 
or services associated with them. 
16.37 Without the permission of the account owner or system administrator, do not hack, access, copy, delete or amend, or 
attempt so to do the computer account, information or resources of another user  
16.38 Do not initiate or perpetuate any chain email message. Do report immediately to the 'postmaster' the receipt of chain 
email messages forwarding the email message wherever possible. 
16.39 Students do not click on links or attachments from senders that they do not recognize or ask for something that is not 
regular. 
16.40 You should not deliberately create, display, produce, store, circulate, or transmit defamatory or libelous material. 
16.41 Transmission of unsolicited com mercial or advertising material on the SVKM’s NMIMS  network / Campus  is 
prohibited. 
16.42 Do not deliberately create, display, produce, store, circulate or transmit obscene material in any form or medium.  
16.43 Never monitor, read and disrupt network traffic inside the campus. 
16.44 Do not make deliberate unauthorised access to facilities or services accessible via the SVKM’s NMIMS  Local Area 
Network (LAN). 
16.45 Appreciate staff effort or networked resources, including time on end systems accessible via LAN and the effort of 
staff involved in the support of those systems. 
16.46 Do not deny service to other users including deliberately or recklessly overloading access links or switching 
equipment. 
16.47 You must adhere to the terms and conditions of all licens e agreements relating to IT facilities, which  you use 
including software, equipment, services, documentation and other goods. 
16.48 You must use the IT facilities only for academic, research and administrative purposes, together with limited personal 
use. Such personal use is allowed as a privilege , not a right, must conform to these guidelines, and should not incur 
unreasonable costs or have an adverse impact on resources or services. 
16.49 Students are prohibited from viewing any Pornographic material in the computer Centre or on any other computer or 
IT system inside the SVKM’s NMIMS campus or storing child pornography, Playing Games, hacking into networks 
and other computers, spamming and sending junk mail, and causing damage to the IT infrastructure. If found so, 
appropriate disciplinary action will be taken. 
16.50 You must obtain prior permission to use computers for commercial or outside work including the use of IT facilities 
to the substantial advantage of other bodies such as employers of placement students.  
16.51 Students' requests related to additional Internet Bandwidth requirements for special access to events, a request should 
reach the IT helpdesk minimum 72 hours in advance. 
16.52 Do not interfere with or change any hardware or software; if you do, appropriate action will be taken to make it right. 
16.53 Do not interfere with the legitimate use by others of the IT facilities; do not remove or interfere with output belonging

=== page 34 ===
30 
 
  
to others. 
16.54 Game software loading onto, or playing games software on, the IT facilities unless required for academic purposes. 
16.55 Neither admit any other person to computer  facilities or other  SVKM’s NMIMS premises when those facilities or 
premises are locked nor enter unless authorised to do so. 
16.56 You must respect the rights of others and should conduct yourself in a quiet and orderly manner when using IT 
facilities. 
16.57 You must immediately vacate any IT r oom when asked to do so by any person who has legitimately booked that 
room and must not leave processes running or files printing or otherwise interfere with the work of that person. 
Failure to cooperate gives that person the right to switch off the workstation that you are using. 
16.58 Important: In the event, the guidelines are not followed and there is a consequent damage to any computing facility, 
SVKM’s NMIMS reserves the right to charge students for the cost of rectification of such damage and/or take further 
disciplinary action. 
16.59 Student requests related to additional internet Bandwidth requirements & any IT-related special access to any events, 
a request should reach IT helpdesk a minimum of 72 hours in advance with approval of HOD or  Registrar, inform 
via Email and an IT request form. 
16.60 Students are not allowed to change the default settings of Desktops/smartboards  installed in the classrooms, 
Conference Rooms & Board rooms (except prior approval intimation). 
 
17. Students Portal (Learning Management System): 
 
17.1 Student Portal is a Web-based learning management system designed to allow students and faculty to participate in 
classes delivered online or use online materials and activities to complement face- to-face teaching.  
17.2 URL: Access Portal through https://portal.svkm.ac.in/usermgmt/login 
17.3 Login Policy: Default User ID is the student’s SAP number and the Password will be mailed by the Admin / Course 
Coordinator 
17.4 Change Password: Students are recommended to change their password after their first login for safe surfing. 
17.5 Forgot Password: If students are not able to log in  with their current password or forgot their password then can 
reset their password by clicking on the Forgot Password option. 
17.6 Email Update: Users need to change/update their email ID and contact number to get regular notifications. 
17.7 Course links: Your login will contain only the current trimester/semester/annual term course list. 
17.8 Announcements:  Announcements related to the course, exam timetable and other activities are published in the 
Announcements section. 
17.9 ICA: Display ICA (Internal Continuous Assessment) marks on LMS Portal 
17.10 Library: It will be a single gateway for all library data like Question Papers, Syllabus, Notices, etc.  
17.11 Remote Access to Databases: Remote access to all the web -based databases subscribed by SVKM’s NMIMS  
Libraries globally. 
17.12 Assignments / Assessments: Assignments can be uploaded and will be graded by faculty. Online score s will be 
stored. All types of assessments can be conducted online. 
17.13 Academic Content: Syllabus, SRB, Teaching Scheme, Class Time-table, etc. can be uploaded. 
17.14 Course Content: All course-related reading materials (ppts/notes/videos/links) can be published.   
17.15 Assessment (Internal): ICA -based tests can be conducted on the Portal. Internal marks for respective courses will 
be published on the Students Portal. 
17.16 Faculty Feedback: Faculty Feedback is accepted online for the respective trimester/semester/annual. 
17.17 Groups:  Groups can be created by faculty for assessments, File Exchange, Message, etc. for their Courses. 
17.18 Forum: This feature can be used by students and faculty to interact and discuss topics related to their respective 
courses. 
17.19 Hostel Application: Students c an book a hostel  through the portal (where online admissions are done  and full 
payment is completed) 
17.20 Mobile Application: available for student assignment, displaying ICA marks, and notifications can be viewed. 
17.21 Student Service: Students benefit from the students’ portal for Name validations as required for mark sheets, photo 
upload, and Letters of recommendation (LOR), whenever required. Registration and allocation process for CBCS 
and Interdisciplinary courses. 
17.22 Selection of Electives: options are available for MPSTME (Mumbai / Shirpur) students to choose Open Electives . 
17.23 The student grievance processes have been incorporated into the Learning Management System (LMS)  
17.24 The online survey feature has been implemented in the student portal. 
 
Help – Assistance: mail to portal_app_team@svkm.ac.in or phone no: 022 - 46152650

=== page 35 ===
31 
 
  
 
18. Feedback Mechanism: 
SVKM’s NMIMS  has a well -established online feedback mechanism through the Student Portal for communication of 
perceptions. The components of this feedback mechanism are: 
18.1 Feedback at the end of the third week of every trimester /Semester/annual term . Dean / Director  /Programme 
Chairperson/HOD will meet students personally, if applicable.  
18.2 Online Feedback through the Students Portal is taken using a questionnaire , preferably in the last session of every 
course in each trimester/semester/annual term. This feedback is compiled, and statistics are placed before each faculty 
member by the end of the trimester/semester/annual term. 
18.2.1 All students should get involved in this mechanism seriously, as it truly helps the SVKM’s NMIMS improve 
the quality of services and teaching provided. 
18.2.2 These are open-ended questions in which students can reflect on learning and teaching aspects of the course. 
18.2.3 SVKM’s NMIMS uses feedback to improve the teaching-learning process proactively. 
18.2.4 While sharing the feedback to the faculty members, the student’s identity is kept confidential. 
 
19. Mentoring Programme / ‘Psychologist and a Counsellor’: 
19.1 Mentoring Programme: 
Students (as applicable school-wise) have been assigned faculty mentors whose role is to help assimilate the SVKM’s 
NMIMS culture, facilitate intelligent choice- making regarding the selection of courses , and help identify resources 
needed by all students. Do meet your faculty mentor regularly, as per their convenience and availability. 
 
19.2 Psychologist and a Counsellor: 
A Psychologist is a non-judgmental, qualified professional who understands, ensures privacy and confidentiality and  
guides you by giving choices so that you make the right decision. This process is facilitated using realistic, structured, 
and research-based therapy. 
Managing emotions is vital to ensure all-rounded progress in life. We need to break down the old walls of myths and 
misconceptions to move towards growth . Visiting a counsellor (Psychologist) enables  us to relearn more helpful, 
progressive, reality-based thinking strategies.  
 
Personal counselling is essential at every step in life , even at the corporate level. What we think about situations , affects 
our subconscious mind and interferes with our present-day life.  
 
As human beings, at any given time in life,  we could go through challenge s and have no one to share with or guide us. 
We often do not share our issues with family or friends due to the fear of upsetting or burdening them. We worry that 
perhaps they may not understand or could become judgmental. At such times, we recommend Personal Counselling.  
 
i. “I cannot concentrate or focus nor can I sleep, at times, I get so scared that I go blank in my exams!”  
ii. “Since the time he/she  left me , I cannot put my attention to anything,  I will not be able to live 
anymore………can’t bear it if she is not in my life!” 
iii.  “I have lost my confidence, I feel worthless /hopeless; no one loves me. I don’t want to live anymore.”  
iv. “I feel n obody understands what I am going through... ” (People become judgmental instead of understanding 
and supporting) “I feel people invalidate my feelings.” 
v. “I do not know whom to share my feelings with. Where do I seek help? Who will be able to help me? 
 
Have you had any of these repetitive thoughts or faced a rejection that you cannot cope with? 
 
Have you reacted very angrily at first and then later realised that reacting to the event was not needed, and in the process, 
you harmed the relations you had with your friends and family?  Do you know what went wrong then? Do you understand 
what triggered you?  
 
Just as we would treat a sprain with some ointment, we try to heal our emotional pain independently. When the sprain is 
not healing, we visit the doctor , and similarly, one sees the psychologist sometimes when we are unable to clear our 
emotional challenges on our own. The counsellor needs to check how deep your wound is, and usually, you are helped 
through therapeutic counseling.  
 
We may be unaware of our behaviour’s implications on others, but it eventually could affect our relations in daily life at 
home, in class, or at work. When past emotional situations are not dealt with therapeutically, we could develop unhealthy 
negative thoughts and feelings that we need to be aware of. They could again lead to complications  and affect our 
performance, decision making, logical thinking, studies, relationships , and career. This continued  stress can gradually 
affect our body and physiological health,  causing hypertension, respiratory ailments,  gastrointestinal disturbances, 
migraine and tension headaches, skin conditions, and ulcers. Understanding the mind-body connection is essential.

=== page 36 ===
32 
 
  
 
The biggest myth is that being  emotional is to be wea k, so often, we push all our emotional issues under the carpet  and 
then take up unhealthy habits  like smoking, drinking, and substance abuse  to escape from our reality . We hope to feel 
better, which lasts only for a short time. O n the othe r hand,  it may create  long-term damage leading to unhealthy 
dependency. 
 
SVKM’s NMIMS wants to ensure the holistic development of the students. We understand that to perform at your highest 
potential in your academic journey, your emotions and mental health need to be well- regulated and balanced. Therefore, 
have appointed a team of  psychologists who you can connect with via call or email and set u p a session to discuss any 
concerns that may be affecting you.  
(022-42332225 or email Nazneen.raimalwala@nmims.edu / 
 022-42334090  or email ketaki.gokhale@nmims.edu) – (MPSTME students) 
022-42355702 or email supriya.khade@nmims.edu 
 
Information about SVKM’s NMIMS University Student Support Services can also be found on the University website. 
https://www.nmims.edu/mental-health-support.php 
 
World Health Organization and the U.S. National Library of Medicine articles: 
National Library of Medicine: Psychosomatic disorders in developing countries: 
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16612204      
WHO | Prevention of bullying-related morbidity and mortality:  
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16612204

=== page 37 ===
33 
 
  
20. Rules for Participating in National/International Level Contests: All contests have to be routed through the Faculty in 
charge of Student Activity/HOD/Dean/Director. 
 
20.1 All contest notices, posters, letters , and leaflets will be posted on student notice boards as well as on student email 
groups. 
20.2 All student contests are classified as follows. 
GRADE A: National and International level contests of very high repute.  
GRADE B: National-level contests of high repute. 
GRADE C: Local and National level contests. 
The respective school heads will make the classification of a contest in Grades A/B/C. 
20.3 The classification of the contest will determine the selection, reimbursement, and appraisal of the students. 
20.4 Reimbursements (Applicable only for National Contest) 
20.5 Students going for GRADE A will be provided with 100% reimbursement for travel (Non A/C Sleeper  class/ 3 tier) to 
and fro from the contest destination.  
20.5.1 Students going for GRADE B and C contests will be provided 100% reimbursement  for travel (Non A/C 
Sleeper class/ 3 tier) to and fro from the contest destination, provided that they have won the contest (1st or 
2nd place only). 
20.5.2 All reimbursements are subject to the approval of the head of the school and are hence subject to change.  
20.5.3 All reimbursements will be made only after the student has returned from the contest. All bills, tickets for  
the travel and copy of certificates will have to be retained and submitted. 
20.5.4 All students claiming the reimbursement will have to submit all details to the AR / DR of the school for 
processing through the accounts department. 
 
20.6 Contest Winners: 
Any student who has won any contest is required to provide full details of the contest and the award won to the 
faculty (video clip/photographs/reports etc.) within 7 days of winning the contest. Any student failing to submit 
details of contest won within 7 days will not be considered for appraisals. 
 
 
21 Guidelines for Annual Convocation / Degree Distribution Ceremony  
 
21.1 The Annual Convocation / Degree Distribution ceremony will be held for all Full-Time and Part-Time programs of 
SVKM’s NMIMS. 
21.2 Only those students who have fulfilled the requirements of the program will be eligible to receive their 
degrees/diplomas at the Annual Convocation / Degree Distribution Ceremony . These requirements include a 
migration certificate, attendance requirements,  submission of all assignments and projects, clearance of all dues 
from various departments like accounts, hostel, library,  etc., and passing of all examinations and any other 
deliverables to the school of SVKM’s NMIMS. 
21.3 In case any student is found ineligible to receive a degree/diploma on any account, he/she may apply for 
consideration of his case at least 48 hours before the Annual Convocation / Degree Distribution ceremony . The 
decision of the management will be final and binding. No last -minute requests for reconsideration will be 
entertained. 
21.4 Students will be given a set of guidelines by school authorities , and they are required to follow these guidelines for 
the effective conduct of the event.

=== page 38 ===
34 
 
  
 
22 Roles and Responsibilities of SVKM’s NMIMS University Students’ Council (NUSC) 
 
22.1 SVKM’s NMIMS University Students’ Council (NUSC) 
The SVKM’s NMIMS University Students’ Council is the apex student body of the University and has a representation 
from students across schools and campuses of SVKM’s NMIMS  University. The primary objective of the student 
council body at the University level is to assimilate and integrate students of SVKM’s NMIMS from all the constituents 
and schools across various campuses in Mumbai and other locations and to provide the students with a platform to 
harness their creative activities. The SVKM’s NMIMS  University Student Council  (NUSC) promotes collective and 
constructive leadership within the student community. 
 
The major roles and responsibilities of the Students Council include: 
• Providing a holistic and integrative platform to encourage interaction between var ious streams and courses. 
• Organizing a University Day, with the intent of executing and planning parallel activities and events across all 
schools and campuses. 
• Organizing a University-level Cultural/ Sports festival, to encourage participation and assimilation for the holistic 
development of all students. 
• Promoting and publishing student success stories on social media platforms and forums to garner response s for 
the various accolades and accomplishments. 
• Organize activities that are in the larger interest of the student community. 
 
From each school/campus, two student council representatives will constitute the SVKM’s NMIMS University Student 
Council (NUSC). The names of representatives are finalized by the Dean/Director/Head of the respective school. The 
NUSC comprises executive committee positions , i.e., President, Vice President, General Secretary, and Treasurer, 
along wi th Head of Departments and other council members representing schools and campuses across SVKM’s 
NMIMS University. The executive committee represents and coordinates with the council members for various 
activities, and every academic year is selected through a formal selection procedure (consisting of voting and personal 
interviews, etc.) involving the Faculty Advisor/ faculty members & existing Council members. 
 
22.2 Student Council (School Level) 
The Student Council is the apex student body at every school and represents the full-time students. The Vice-President, 
General Secretary, and Cultural Secretary , along with a team of executive members and course representatives , 
support the President and share responsibility for each student body & activity on campus. The Council for every 
academic year is selected through a formal selection procedure involving faculty /Admin heads of the School & 
existing Council members. The major roles & responsibilities include: 
a. To serve as a formal communication channel between the students, faculty , and administration. 
b. To navigate all student-related activities at SVKM’s NMIMS and facilitate a better life on campus. 
c. To spearhead the organisation & co-ordination of the Corporate Festival, the Cultural Festival, & other Events. 
d. To assist all public relations activities and supervise student publications & newsletters at SVKM’s NMIMS  
e. All the cell activities have to be routed through the President of the cell, General Secretary of Council (Budget and 
Release of Money), HOD/Dean/Director, Accounts Department – in case of Release of Money. 
f. Communication and Invitations of events/guest lecturers / workshops etc., conducted by cells and council have to 
be informed to the HOD/Dean/Director, well in advance. 
g. For the major events, a formal invitation is to be given to all the senior management 
h. Submit a trimester/semester /annual term report at the end of every trimester/semester /annual term to the faculty 
In-charge.

=== page 39 ===
35 
 
  
 
23 Fee-Related Procedures: 
 
23.1 All students who are working for placement, contests, co- curricular, extra-curricular, and any other activities for 
and on behalf of SVKM’s NMIMS that need funding and accounting from SVKM’s NMIMS are required to prepare 
budgets for all their expenses well in advance and obtai n approval from the Management. Once the expenses are 
incurred, they must be settled within 72 hours along with the report of activities.  
 
23.2 Re-examination Fees: 
The students who have failed and wish to re -appear for an examination will be required to pay re -examination fees, 
which shall be determined from time to time and communicated through suitable mechanisms.  
 
23.3 Re-admission / Re-registration fees: 
A person who is not allowed to progress to the next year due to rules regarding failures in multiple course s/subjects 
shall be required to take re-admission and attend all the classes of that academic year. He will be required to pay re-
admission fees, which will include tuition fees and other fees as prescribed from time to time.  
 
23.4 Hostel Deposit Refund: 
Location: SVKM’s NMIMS Accounts Department 
Procedure: 
a. Please procure the signature of the Hostel in-charge on the receipt. 
b. Submit the signed Hostel Deposit Receipt to the Accounts Department along with the Application for Refund 
as per Annexure 9. 
c. Please attach a copy of a cancelled cheque for your account or your parents’ account. Same particulars of the 
bank account to which the refund is to be sent are to be mentioned on the Application for Refund form. 
d. Please allow 3 weeks for the issue of the Refund. 
 
23.5 Library Deposit and Security Deposit Refund: 
 Location: Course Coordinator 
 Procedure: 
a. On completion of the program (course), the course coordinator would co-ordinate with all students for Student 
Bank account details (for NEFT Transfer). The same is required for a refund of the Library and Security Deposit 
b. Please allow 3 weeks for the issue of the Refund through NEFT

=== page 40 ===
36 
 
  
24 University level: Anti-Ragging squad and Committee,  Internal Complaints Committee and Ombudsman. 
 
24.1 Ragging: Ragging of fellow students in any form is strictly prohibited inside and outside the campus. Any student/s 
found guilty of ragging and/or abetting ragging, whether actively or passively, or being a part of a conspiracy to 
promote ragging, is liable to be  punished as per the rules. Ragging often ends up in sexual or physical harassment of  
the victim. The institute maintains a zero-tolerance policy towards ragging. All issues in this regard will be dealt with 
utmost urgency and stringent action will be taken against those involved.  
   For further details regarding committee members at the school level, please refer to Part II of the SRB.  
Committee members will be modified if there is any change. 
It is mandatory as per the Hon. Supreme Court & UGC/MHRD Regulations that all students fill in an Anti Raging Undertaking, 
each year. To make the process easy, MHRD has developed an ONLINE Facility. You are requested to fill in the College name 
followed by SVKM’s NMIMS Deemed to be University while filling out the online form. Students can fill out an Undertaking 
ONLINE at any of the links: www.amanmovement.org  (OR)  www.antiragging.in. 
 
Anti-Ragging Squad committee (applicable only for Mumbai Campus) 
 
University Level    
Name Designation E-mail ID Contact no. 
1.  Dr. Meena Galliara Chairperson Meena.Galliara@sbm.nmims.edu 022 42355807 
2.  Dr. Beena Nair Member beena.nair@nmims.edu  022 42352265 
3.  Dr. Rimi Moitra  Member  rimi.moitra@nmims.edu 022 42355736 
4.  Dr. Niladri Bagchi Member Niladri.bagchi@nmims.edu 022 42355723 
5.  Dr. Ginpreet Kaur Member Ginpreet.Kaur@nmims.edu 022 42352035 
6.  Dr. Rajesh Maurya Member rajesh.maurya@nmims.edu 022 42359747 
7.  Prof. Rishabh Dwivedi Member rishabh.dwivedi@nmims.edu 022 42350383 
8.  Mr. Sushil Jain Member sushil.jain@nmims.edu 022 42355849 
9.  Dr. Manoj Nikam Member Manoj.Nikam@nmims.edu 022 42352230 
10.  Dr. Manas Vishwaroop Member manas.vishwaroop@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
11.  Prof. Dhanashri Sawant Member dhanashri.sawant@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
12.  Dr. Deepti Puranik Member deepti.puranik@nmims.edu 022 42352708 
13.  Dr. Pamela Jha Member Pamela.jha@nmims.edu 022 42355953 
 
Anti-Ragging Committees:  
University Level    
Name Designation E-mail ID Contact no. 
1.  Dr. Tanmoy Chakraborty, Registrar Chairperson registrar@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
2.  Dr. Chandrima Sikdar, Professor, 
SBM, NMIMS 
Member Chandrima.sikdar@sbm.nmims.e
du 
022 42355818 
3.  Dr. Ahmad Khalid Professor, 
PDSEFBM, SVKM’s NMIMS 
Member Ahmad.khalid@nmims.edu 022 42352621 
4.  Dr. Vaishali Kulkarni Professor, 
MPSTME, SVKM’s NMIMS 
Member Vaishali.kulkarni@nmims.edu 022 42354073 
5.  Dr. Minu Mehta, Dean, ASMSOC, 
SVKM’s NMIMS 
Member Minu.mehta@nmims.edu 022 42355759 
6.  Dr. Deepali Kamle, Director, CIS, 
SVKM’s NMIMS 
Member Deepali.kamle@nmims.edu 022 42355887 
7.  Senior Inspector Member 
(Police)  juhupolicestation@gmail.com 022 26183856 
8.  Parent Representative Member (To be invited as and when required) 
9.  Bhoomi Khatri Senior student representative 
10.  Guruprasad Kini Fresher student Representative 
11.  Dr. Christine D’Lima Member 
Secretary Christine.dlima@nmims.edu 022-42355805 
12.  Majilis Legal Centre NGO Representative 
At Hostels, Mumbai    
1. Dr. Tanmoy Chakraborty Chairperson registrar@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
2. Shri Harit Chitalia Member harit.chitalia@svkm.ac.in 022 42199999 
3. Dr Meena Chintamaneni Member meena.chintamaneni@nmims.edu 022-42355555 
4. Prof. Seema Mahajan Member seemam@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
5.  Mr. Venugopal K Member venugopalk@nmims.edu 022 42355555

=== page 41 ===
37 
 
  
 
 
Internal Complaints Committee: Sexual harassment: Sexual harassment on campus or outside campus is unlawful, as well as 
unethical, and will not be tolerated. All issues in this regard will be dealt with utmost urgency and stringent action will be taken against 
those involved. As per the  UGC guidelines, a committee has been constituted to look into all such complaints  towards Sexual 
harassment, women's grievances and gender sensitisation. 
 
Internal Complaints Committee: 
Name Designation E-mail ID Contact no. 
1.  
Dr. Meena Galliara, Director, 
(Jasani Centre for Sustainability 
Management & Social Ent.) 
Chairperson Meena.Galliara@sbm.nmims.edu 022 42355807 
2.  
Dr. Ketan Shah -  
Director, (Accreditation & 
Compliance) 
Member Secretary 
ketanshah@nmims.edu 
022 42355507 
3.  Ms. Arti Daga – Associate 
Professor Member 
Arti.Daga@nmims.edu 
022 42332136 
4.  Ms. Niti Bhatt – Chief Accountant Member 
Niti.Bhatt@nmims.edu 
022 42355655 
5.  Ms. Suchita More, Assistant 
Registrar 
Member Suchita.More@nmims.edu 022 42355593 
6.  Majlis Legal Centre (Audrey 
D’Mello) 
NGO Representative   
7.  Yashna Singh Chauhan Student Representative Yashna-Singh@nmims.in  
8.  Shraddha Londhe Student Representative SHRADDHA.LONDHE001@nm
ims.in 
 
9.  Haripradad S Student Representative HARIPRASAD.S486@nmims.in  
 
 
 Women Grievance Redressal Cell:  
Name Designation E-mail ID Contact no. 
1.  Prof. Amita Vaidya,  
Director, (SAMSOE, NMIMS) 
Chairperson Amita.Vaidya@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
2.  Dr. Nupur Mehrotra, Director 
(Accreditation & Compliance) 
Member Nupur.Mehrotra1@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
3.  Ms. Karuna Bhaya, 
Finance Officer, (NMIMS) 
Member KarunaB@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
4.  
Dr. Meena Galliara,  
Director, (Centre for Sustainability 
Management & Social Ent) 
Member Meena.Galliara@sbm.nmims.edu 022 42355555 
5.  Mr. Paramanand Rajwar,  
Deputy Registrar, (Administration) 
Member Paramanand.Rajwar@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
6.  Dr. Tanmoy Chakraborty,  
(Registrar) 
Member Secretary registrar@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
7.  NGO Representatives will also be part of this committee  
 
 
University Student Grievance Redressal Committee: 
 
Name Designation E-mail ID Contact no. 
1.  Justice Abhay Thipsay,  
(Retd. High Court Judge) 
Ombudsman   
2.  Dr. Tanmoy Chakraborty, 
(Registrar) 
Chairperson registrar@nmims.edu 022 42359927 
3.  Dr. Minu Mehta, Dean 
(ASMSOC) Member Minu.mehta@nmims.edu 022 42355759 
4.  Dr. Ketan Shah, Director, 
(Accreditation & Compliance) Member Secretary 
KetanShah@nmims.edu 
022 42355507 
5.  Ms. Karuna Bhaya,  
Finance Officer Member 
KarunaB@nmims.edu 
022 42355656 
6.  Mr. Paramanand Rajwar,  
Dy. Registrar (Administration)  Member 
Paramanand.Rajwar@nmims.ed
u 022 42355558

=== page 42 ===
38 
 
  
 
Caste Based Discrimination by SC/ST/OBC Students/ Equal Opportunity Cell Committee: 
 
 Name Designation E-mail ID Contact no. 
1. Dr. Meena Chintamaneni, Pro-
Vice Chancellor  
Member Meena.Chintamaneni@nmims.edu 022 42355550 
2.  Mr. Masseh Khatib, Deputy 
Registrar, Accreditation & 
Compliance 
Member 
Masseh.Khatib@nmims.edu 
022 42355906 
2. Dr. Paramanand Rajwar, Deputy 
Registrar, Administration Member 
Paramanand.Rajwar@nmims.edu 
022 42355558 
3. Ms. Vandana Shegokar, Assistant 
Registrar, Academic Admin Member 
vandana.shegokar@nmims.edu 
022 42355877 
4. Ms. Suchita More, Assistant 
Registrar, HR Member 
Suchita.More@nmims.edu 
022 42355593 
 
 
24.2 Ombudsman: The Ombudsman shall exercise the power to hear the grievances of those who are not satisfied with the 
decision of SVKM’s NMIMS Grievance Redressal Committee. The Ombudsman would be required to dispose of cases within one 
month of the receipt for speedy redress of grievances. On conclusion of the proceeding, the Ombudsman shall pass such order, 
with reasons for such order, as may be deemed fit to redress the grievance and provide such relief as may be desirable to the 
affected party. Justice Abhay Thipsay (Retd. Justice) has been appointed as Ombudsman at SVKM’s NMIMS  University (Tel.: 
91-22-42355945/51).  
 
 For more details, kindly refer AICTE regulations on Ombudsman.

=== page 43 ===
39 
 
  
 
25 Safety Guide for Students on Floods, Fire and Earthquakes 
 
SVKM’s NMIMS gives utmost importance to safety of its students. It prepares students for natural hazards.  
The safety measures for some natural disasters, such as 1) Floods, 2) Earthquakes and 3) Fire, are highlighted briefly. 
 
25.1 Floods: Precautions to be taken in case of Floods are given in Table 1 below.  
Before Floods  During Floods  After Floods  
• Identify and visit elevated areas in 
and around the Institute as places of 
refuge during a flood 
• Be aware of drainage channels and 
other low -lying areas known to 
flood suddenly. Consult and 
involve local authorities in the 
institutes 
• Check for the monsoon alerts for 
the heavy rains declar ed by the 
Municipal Corporation 
• Do not travel long distances on 
dates indicated as ‘Monsoon 
Alerts’. Contact the Institute if there 
is any pre -planned activity or 
examination, or any other important 
work on that day,  and try to adjust 
it on some other day 
• Keep l ocally available equipment  
such as ropes, batter ies, radio, 
plastic bottles , and cans handy 
during the rainy season. This can 
help you to plan your rescue 
• Prepare a food kit including 
emergency food items such as 
biscuits, snacks, drinking water , 
and so on 
• Evacuate to previously identified elevated 
areas 
• Your life is most precious . Avoid saving 
valuables at that moment. 
• Disconnect electrical appliances.  
• Turn off utilities at the main switches or valves 
if instructed to do so 
• Don’t touch electrical equipment if you are 
wet or standing in water 
• Do not walk through moving water. Six inches 
of moving water can make you fall 
• If you have to walk in water, walk where the 
water is not moving 
• Use a stick to check the firmness of the ground 
in front of you 
• Avoid floodwaters; water may be 
contaminated by oil, gasoline, or raw sewage 
• Water may also be electrically charged from 
underground or downed power lines 
• Listen to the radio for advance d information 
and advice. Don’t spread rumors 
• Move vehicles to the highest ground nearby 
• Do not enter floodwaters on foot if you can 
avoid it 
• Never wander around a flooded area 
• Drink clean water 
• Stay away from downed power lines, 
and report them to the Security 
Officer 
• Leave the Institute / home only when 
authorities indicate it is safe 
• Stay out of any building if it is 
surrounded by floodwaters 
• Use extreme caution when entering 
buildings; there m ay be hidden 
damage, particularly on foundations 
• Floors in the building will be slippery 
due to water and mud. Walk carefully 
on the slippery floor. 
• Wear appropriate footwear. Do not 
use slippers during the rainy season  
• Watch out for loose flooring, holes , 
and dislodged nails 
• Clean and disinfect everything that 
got wet 
• Discard any food items which may 
have got wet 
• Inform them about the damaged 
drainage and sewage systems in and 
around the building to the authorities 
as soon as possible. These can be a 
major health hazard 
• First, protect yourself and then help 
others. 
 
25.2 Earthquake: Precautions to be taken in case of earthquakes are displayed in Table 2 below: 
Before Earthquake During Earthquake After Earthquake 
• In a hostel or at home , 
keep heavy objects on 
lower shelves so they 
will not fall on you 
during an earthquake.  
 
• Make sure your water 
heater and gas cylinder 
are secured and intact. 
This will ensure that it 
will not fall during an 
earthquake and hurt 
someone or start a fire.  
• Keep a torch and a 
mobile handy. 
• Keep the corridors in the 
hostel/house clear of 
furniture and other 
things, making 
movement easier. 
 
If you are at home or inside a 
building 
• Do not rush to the doors or exits; 
never use the lifts; keep well away 
from window s, mirrors, chimneys , 
and furniture. 
• Protect yourself by staying under the 
lintel of an inner door, in the corner 
of a room, under a table , or even 
under a bed.  
If you are on the street  
• Walk towards an open place in a 
calm and composed manner. Do not 
run and do not wander round the 
streets. 
• Keep away from buildings, 
especially old, tall,  or detached 
buildings, electricity wires, slopes , 
and walls, which are liable to 
collapse. 
 
If you are at home or inside a building 
• Expect aftershocks. Be prepared. Stay where you are and 
do not come out immediately.  
• Keep calm and obey any instructions you hear after you 
come out 
• Turn off the water, gas, and electricity 
 
• Do not smoke and do not light matches or use a cigarette 
lighter. Do not turn on switches. There may be gas leaks 
or short circuits. 
• If there is a fire, try to put it out. If you cannot, call the 
fire brigade.  
• Immediately clean up any inflammable products that may 
have spilled (alcohol, paint, etc.). 
• Avoid places where there are loose electric wires, and do 
not touch any metal object in contact with them.  
• Do not drink water from open containers without having 
examined it and filtered it through a sieve, a filter , or an 
ordinary clean cloth.  
• Eat something. You will feel better and more capable of 
helping others.

=== page 44 ===
40 
 
  
Before Earthquake During Earthquake After Earthquake 
 
 
If you are driving 
• Stop the vehicle away from 
buildings, walls, slopes, electricity 
wires, and cables, and stay in the 
vehicle.  
 
• If the building is badly damaged, you will have to leave 
it. Collect water containers, food, and ordinary and 
special medicines (for persons with heart complaints, 
diabetes, etc.). 
• Help people who are injured. Provide them with first aid. 
Do not move seriously injured people unless they are in 
danger. 
If you are outside 
• If you know that people have been buried, tell the rescue 
teams. Do not rush and do not worsen the situation of 
injured persons or your situation.  
• Do not re -enter badly damage d buildings and do not go 
near damaged structures. 
• Do not walk around the streets to see what has happened. 
Keep clear of the streets to enable rescue vehicles to pass. 
• Keep away from beaches and low banks of rivers. Huge 
waves may sweep in. 
• Keep updating yourself with the latest information on 
earthquakes through radio or TV.  
 
25.3 Fire: Precautions to be taken in case of fire are given in Table 3 below: 
 
Before Fire During Fire After Fire 
• Identify the fire hazards 
and where fires might 
start, e.g. , laboratories, 
storerooms, kitchen s, 
and other such places. 
• Identify all the exit 
routes of the Institute.  
• Check the adequacy of 
the firefighting 
apparatus and its 
maintenance. 
 
• Do not panic. Shout for help. 
• Do not run. 
• Do not waste time collecting valuables. 
• Inform the fire brigade about the fire and alert neighbors. 
• If possible, use a fire extinguisher. 
• Do not take shelter in the toilet. 
• Shut all the doors behind you while leaving the room to prevent 
fire from spreading everywhere. 
• Do not use the lift to escape. 
• Use the nearest means of escape and the staircase available.  
• Exit ground level instead of the terrace. 
• Report about your safe escape and any other information to the 
University authorities, fire brigade, or police present at the site. 
 
If trapped or stranded: 
• Stay close to the floor level. 
• Cover the gaps of the door with any piece of cloth available. 
• Do not jump out of the building. 
• Signal or shout for help. 
• Stop, drop, and roll on the ground and cover with a blanket; pour 
water on the body 
• Dial 101 or 22620 5301 for the fire brigade 
• Give the fire officer a detailed address, the nature of the incident , 
and the telephone number from which you are calling. Preferably, 
use a landline. Keep down the receiver and wait at the same spot. 
Control Room will call back to verify the call. 
• Wait for the Fire Brigade to arrive and co -operate with the 
firefighters. 
• Don’t re -enter or permit 
anyone to enter the 
building, unless the fire 
officials have permitted  
entry. 
 
 
25.4 In case of any injury caused or loss of life to the negligence of the student and/or due to natural calamities  the 
institution shall not be held liable in any form of compensation and/or responsibility whatsoever.

=== page 45 ===
41 
 
  
26 The list of website categories that are blocked for use at SVKM’s NMIMS and the Hostels. 
Sr. No. Category 
1 Potentially Liable 
2 Drug Abuse 
3 Occult 
4 Hacking 
5 Illegal Unethical 
6 Racism and Hate 
7 Violence 
8 Marijuana 
9 Folklore 
10 Proxy Avoidance 
11 Web Translation 
12 Phishing 
13 Plagiarism 
14 Child Abuse 
15 Controversial 
16 Abortion 
Sr. No. Category 
17 Adult Materials 
18 Advocacy 
Organizations 
19 Gambling 
20 extremist Groups 
21 Nudity And Risqué 
22 Pornography 
23 Tasteless 
24 Weapons 
25 Sex Education 
26 Alcohol 
27 Tobacco 
28 Lingerie and 
Swimsuit 
29 Sports Hunting and 
War Games 
30 Games 
Sr. No. Category 
31 Peer-to-peer File 
Sharing 
32 Multimedia 
Download 
33 Internet Radio and 
TV 
34 Potential Security 
Violating 
35 Malware 
36 Spyware 
37 Web Hosting 
38 Multimedia Search 
39 Audio Search 
40 Video Search 
41 Spam URL

=== page 46 ===
42 
 
 
27 SVKM’s NMIMS INFOLINE (for Mumbai Campus)  
 
Agency Contact Number 
Disaster Management Cell of Municipal Corporation of 
Greater Mumbai 108 
  
 Police    
       Police Help Line 100 
       Juhu Police Station 26184432 / 26183856 
       Vile Parle Police Station 26117307 / 26117317 
       Vile Parle-East,  Police Station 26112813 
        D. N. Nagar, Andheri (W) Police Station  26303893 / 26304002 / 26303038 
       Andheri (E) Police Station 26831562 / 26842677 
       Santacruz Police Station  26492972 / 26487856 
  
Women's Help Line 1091 
  
Fire Brigade   
        Fire Brigade Help Line  101 
        Andheri Fire Station 26205301 
  
 Ambulance 102 / 1298/1252 
  
 Hospitals   
        Dr. Balabhai Nanavati Hospital 26182255 / 2626 7500 
        Dr. Cooper Hospital 26207254 
  
Doctors on Board  
Dr. Ushma Mashru, Ground Floor, Mithibai College 42355909 
Dr. Harish Dhuri, Ground Floor, Mithibai College  42355909 
  
Travel Agency   
        V-explore 42705205/ 42705255 
  
Hostel (Contact – Mr. Venugopal)   
        MKM Sanghvi Girls Hostel 022-26256382/ 83 
        Bansi Villa Girls Res. Flats 022-4235 5555 / 5557 
        G. R. Jani Hostel Boys 022-42334056 
        Anand Hotel Premises Boys Res Flats 022-4235 5555 / 5557 
  
Psychologists and Counsellors  
For Mumbai Campus: Psychologists and Counsellors  
Ms. Nazneen Raimalwala 
7th floor faculty area, Cabin:-732,  
SVKM’s NMIMS Mumbai (Old bldg.) 
022-42332225 or email 
Nazneen.raimalwala@nmims.edu 
Ms. Ketaki Gokhle (For MPSTME Students) 
New MPSTME Building, Ground floor Admin area 
022-42334090  or email 
Ketaki.gokhale@nmims.edu

=== page 47 ===
43 
 
28 People you should know 
 
University Administration 
 
Name Designation 
Dr. Sougata Ray Vice Chancellor 
Dr. Sharad Mhaiskar Provost 
Dr. Meena Chintamaneni Pro Vice-Chancellor 
Dr. Abhishek Ranjan Pro Vice-Chancellor 
Prof. Seema Mahajan Pro Vice-Chancellor 
Dr. Tanmoy Chakraborty Registrar 
Dr. Sandeep Tomar Additional Registrar 
Ms. Shobha Pai Director (Placements) 
Mr. Kritesh Taunk Director (Marketing) 
Ms. Shweta Patil Manager (International Linkages) 
Ms. Suchita More Assistant Registrar (HR) 
Ms. Neha Patade Deputy Registrar (Admission) 
Ms. Vandana Kushte Deputy Registrar (Academics) 
Ms. Manisha Kurhade Deputy Registrar (Academics) 
Mr. Paramanand Rajwar Deputy Registrar, Administration 
Mr. Shivanand Sadlapur Librarian 
Finance & Accounts 
Ms. Karuna Bhaya Finance Controller 
Ms. Varsha Oak Addl. Finance Controller 
Ms. Niti Bhatt Chief Accountant 
Examinations 
Mr. Ashish Apte Controller of Examinations 
Mr. Salil Thigale Jt. Controller of Examinations 
Ms. Shilpa Patil Deputy Controller of Examinations 
Ms. Janhavi Shivgan Deputy Controller of Examinations 
Mr. Naresh Methwani Deputy Registrar

=== page 48 ===
SVKM'S
NMIMS
Dermed ouhr UNIVERSITY
ANNEXURES
44

=== page 49 ===
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTIMATION FOR ABSENTEEISM 
 
 
School of……………………….. 
 
NAME: _______________________________________________________________  Date: ______________ 
Email ID: _____________________________________________Mobile No. ____________________________ 
Program: _____________________   Trimester/Semester/Annual: _________ Roll No. : ____________Div: ________      
Leave Period: From: ____________________ to ___________________ No. of Days missed: ____________ 
Reason: -  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Student’s Signature: __________________ Enclosures: _______________________________ 
  
To be filled by Students 
(For Office use) 
Course(s) / subject(s) 
 
No. of Class / 
hours held 
during the leave 
period 
Class / Hours 
attended during 
the said period 
Exemption (s) in 
hours to be given 
for above reason 
Attendance as 
of a date 
before the 
exemption 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
      
____________________________________   ___________________________ 
Checked by Course Coordinator (Signature)   Verified by AR / DR (Signature) 
 
 
 
________________________________________________ 
Approved by HOD/Associate Dean/Dean/Director  
(School can update signatories as per school specifications)

=== page 50 ===
46 
 
Annexure 1 
 
SVKM’s NMIMS DEEMED-TO-BE-UNIVERSITY 
APPLICATION FORM FOR NMIMS STUDENTS FOR APPLYING FOR  
STUDENT EXCHANGE PROGRAM 
 
Name of School: ________________________________________________ 
 
Name of the Student: _____________________________________________________________ 
 
Name of the Program: _____________________________________________________________  
 
CGPA in the last trimester/semester/annual term attended at SVKM’s NMIMS________________.  
 
Roll No. _______________Contact No. ___________________ Email ID _________________________  
 
Passport No. __________________ Issued at (place)_____________Date of Expiry _________  
 
Parents Name & Address: 
Father’s Name ___________________________Mother’s Name ________________________  
Address________________________________________________________________________  
_______________________________________________________________________________  
Phone No. ( R ) _________________________Mobile No. ____________________________  
Name of the place you are interested to go for the student exchange program. Kindly give priority by writing number s 1,2,3,4 as 
per your choice. All places and seats are limited and will be offered subject to your performance in the selection process and 
availability. 
 
1. ________________________________   
 
2. ________________________________   
 
3. ________________________________   
 
4. ________________________________   
 
5. Any other University as Mentioned in the Mail: ________________________________   
 
 
Name of the Foreign Language you are acquainted with _____________________________  
If selected, I undertake to apply for a visa on my own initiative. I am also liable not to back out of the process. 
 
Signature of the Student   _____________________________Date __________________  
 
Enclosure: A hard copy of your CV needs to be attached along with the application form.

=== page 51 ===
47 
 
Annexure 2 
SVKM’s  NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University  
      Vile Parle (W), Mumbai-400056. 
           Tel: 022-4235555 / Website: www.nmims.edu 
 
 
 APPLICATION FORM 
(Applicable for incoming students under the Student Exchange program) 
 
 
1. Personal Information 
 
Name of the Student:  ___________________________________________________________________________________  
First name   Middle name   Last name 
 
Nationality ______________    Gender           M               F   Date of Birth ___________ (d/m/y) 
          
Passport No. ______________Issued at (Place ) ___________ Date of Expiry ___________________  
 
Local Address____________________________________________________________________________                                                                                      
Address  _________________________________________________________________________________  
PhoneNo.______________Email1._____________________Email2._______________________________  
 
Home University Details: 
Name ___________________________________________________________________________________  
Address _________________________________________________________________________________  
_________________________________________________________________________________________  
Phone no.____________________ Website ___________________________________________________  
University ContactPerson_______________________EmailID_________________________ ____ 
Person to be contacted in case of emergency: 
Name____________________________________Relation________________________________________  
Address__________________________________________________________________________________  
Phone No.___________________________Email ID _____________________________________________  
Do you have any relatives / friends/ contacts in India? If yes, pl provide the details:  
Name__________________________________________Relation__________________________________  
Address _________________________________________________________________________________  
Phone No.___________________________ Email ID ____________________________________________  
Medical Insurance details:  
Insurer_______________________PolicyNo.__________________Conta ct person__________________ 
Blood group__________________ Vaccination Details ___________________________________  
 
Any medical problem, that you would like to mention to us _________________________________________  
 
2. Educational Qualification (Completed)  
 
Examination University / Board No. of Years of Education Year of Passing Percentage / Grade 
     
     
     
     
     
 
3. Details of any aptitude test taken:(GMAT, GRE, TOFEL, SAT, Any other) 
 
Name of the Test________________Score ___________________ Percentile Score_____________  
 
 
4. Program for which enrolled at a home institution 
Level:  Bachelor                  Master                 Diploma                  Any other (Specify name ) 
 
Name of the Program _____________________________ Duration _________________________  
 
Year: First year           Second year         Third Year          Fourth year          Fifth Year  
 
 
Photo

=== page 52 ===
48 
 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Name of the subjects already 
cleared 
Grades 
Obtained  
Sr. 
No. 
Name of the subjects already 
cleared 
Grades 
Obtained  
1   8   
2   9   
3   10   
4   11   
5   12   
6   13   
7   14   
 
5. SVKM’s NMIMS Course Choice (Final) 
 
Exchange program at SVKM’s NMIMS for your: Trimester/Semester/Annual term _____ Month ______to _______Year 
 
Courses for Tri/Semester  Courses for Tri/Semester  Courses for Tri/Semester 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
6. Declaration  
I _________________________________ declare that all information filled by me in this form is correct and I will complete  
(First name     Middle name   Last name) 
all the requirements, with full engagement in academic matters, like all other student s in the SVKM’s NMIMS  Deemed-to-be-
University.  
 
I undertake to keep the School informed about details of my all travel outside Mumbai and will abide by the prescribed code of 
conduct by the SVKM’s NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University. 
 
 
 
Signature of the Student: _____________________________ Date _____________ 
 
 
 
 
(Signature of Dean/Director/HOD) 
CC. Director – International Linkages

=== page 53 ===
49 
 
Annexure 3 
APPLICATION FORM  
(Applicable for Student Exchange) 
 
 Name of School: _______________________________________ 
 
 
1. Personal Information 
Name of the Student __________________________________    Roll No.__________  
  First  name   Middle name   Last name 
 
Nationality ______________ Gender  M                  F          Date of Birth  ___________(d/m/y) 
Passport No. ______________Issued at ( Place ) ___________ Date of Expiry ___________________  
 
Local Address : 
Name _________________________________________________________________________________                                                                                   
Address ________________________________________________________________________________  
  _______________________________________________________________________________________  
Phone No __________________________      Email ___________________________________________  
 
Permanent Address: 
Name ___________________________________________________________________________________  
Address _________________________________________________________________________________  
_________________________________________________________________________________________  
Phone no. ( R )_____________________             Phone no. ( M )_____________________ 
 
Person to be contacted in case of emergency: 
Name ___________________________________Relation_________________________________________  
Address__________________________________________________________________________________ 
__________________________________________________________________________________________  
Phone No. ___________________________ Email ID ___________________________________________  
 
Do you have any relatives / friends/ contacts at the Host University / Country? If yes, pl provide the details: 
Name __________________________________________Relation ________________________________  
Address_________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________  
Phone No. ___________________________ Email ID ___________________________________________  
 
Medical Insurance details : 
Insurer ___________________Policy No. __________________Contact person__________________  
 
Blood group __________________ Vaccination Details ________________________________________  
 
Any medical problem, which you would like to mention to us: 
 _________________________________________________________________________________________  
 
Any medication you have been prescribed to take: _________________________________________  
 
2. School, Place & Duration for which selected from SVKM’s NMIMS Deemed-to-be University: 
______________________________________________________________________________________  
Semester/ Trimester/Annual ______________________________________________ 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Name of the subjects opted for 
Exchange Program  
Sr. No. Name of the subjects opted for Exchange 
Program 
1  6  
2  7  
3  8  
4  9  
5  10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Photo

=== page 54 ===
50 
 
3. Declaration  
I, _________________________________ student of Full Time _______________ (Program Name)  
from batch of year __________ and Roll No. ___________ is going for the International Student Exchange program in the 
Semester/Trimester/Annual _______. 
 
I have gone through the Student Exchange Policy document and Student Resource Book and have volunteered to join the exchange 
program of my own will and with the consent of my parents/ guardian. I will adhere to the rules and regulations of the host university. 
My parents/guardian are informed of the details of the program, the schedule and the code of conduct expected during the stay at 
the foreign institute and they are in full agreement with the terms of this exchange program. I undertake to keep my School 
/parents/guardian/family informed about details of my travel, my stay and my whereabouts and well -being during my stay.   
 
I promise to uphold the values and honour of the SVKM’s NMIMS  Deemed-to-be-University and fulfi ll my responsibilities as a 
student and treat everyone with dignity and respect. I hereby declare that I have clearly understood & will follow the instructions 
given from time to time and in case of a violation, not adhering to the expected code, I will be liable to suitable action as  per 
SVKM’s NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University rules. 
 
I declare that all information filled by me in this form is  correct and will complete all the requirements, with full engagement in 
academic matters, like all other students on the college campus.  
 
I hereby agree to abide by the rules and regulations expected during the entire program.  
 
 
___________________________              _____________________ 
Name & Signature of the student        Date 
 
Mobile Phone Number: ____________ (Self)   _____________ (Parents/Guar dian) 
 
 
___________________________________ 
(Signature of Dean/Director/HOD) 
 
CC. Director – International Linkages with Enclosures 
 
Enclosures: 
1. Photocopy of Passport  
2. Photocopy of Visa  
3. Photocopy of medical insurance  
4. Ticket details – Photocopy of Ticket

=== page 55 ===
51 
 
Annexure 4 
 
UNDERTAKING 
(Applicable for Student Exchange) 
 
To 
SVKM’s NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University 
School of ___________________ 
Mumbai 
 
Sub: Travelling to a Foreign University as part of a Foreign Exchange Program. 
 
 
I, _________________________________ student of Full Time _______________ (Course Name) from the 
batch of year __________ and Roll No. ___________ is going for a foreign exchange program in the semester 
_______. 
 
I have gone through the Student Exchange Policy document and Student Resource Book and have volunteered 
to join the exchange program of my own will and with the consent of my parents/ guardian. I will adhere to 
all rules and regulations of the host university. My parents/ guardians are informed about t he details of the 
program, the schedule and the code of conduct expected during the stay at the foreign institute and they are in 
full agreement with the terms of this exchange program. I undertake to keep my institute 
/parents/guardian/family informed about details of my travel, my stay and my whereabouts and well -being 
during my stay.   
 
I promise to uphold the values and honour of the SVKM’s NMIMS  Deemed-to-be-University and fulfil my 
responsibilities as a student and treat everyone with dignity and respect. I hereby declare that I have clearly 
understood & will follow the instructions given from time to time and in case of a violation, not adhering to 
the expected code, I will be liable to suitable action as per SVKM’s NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University rules. 
 
I hereby agree to abide by the rules and regulations expected during the entire program.  
 
 
___________________________              _____________________ 
Name & Signature of the student        Date 
 
 
___________________________              _____________________ 
Name & Signature of the Parent   Date 
Mobile Phone Number: __________ (Self)   _____________ (Parents/Guardian)

=== page 56 ===
52 
 
 
 
Annexure 5 
Student Exchange Programme (for Visa Office) 
 
(School Letter Head) 
 
Dated __________________. 
 
To: 
The Visa Section 
The Indian High Commission 
___________________ (City) 
___________________ (Country) 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
This is to certify that Mr/Ms.  ______________ , Student of   _____________(Intl School) has been accepted as an 
exchange student into Semester/Tri mester/Annual term  ______ of our prestigious full -time program, 
_________________________________(Program Name). 
 
The teaching program for Semester/ Trimesters/Annual term  will be held from ____________(Date) to 
___________________(Date). The student will  be attending classes with other full -time students enrolled in the 
program and may also undertake some field projects in local companies on a non-remunerative basis. 
 
We would request you to grant ________________(Name) the necessary student’s visa. 
 
 
Thanking you, 
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
 
Dean 
(School Name & Address) 
(Phone no & email)

=== page 57 ===
53 
 
Student Exchange Programme (for Visa Application) 
 
(School Letter Head) 
 
Dated_____________________ 
 
 
To: 
The Consul General of __________________ 
_______________ Consulate/ Embassy 
Mumbai, India 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
This is to certify that Mr/Ms __________________________ is a _____ year student of our 
_____________________________ program. She/He has been selected to visit ______________ (Institute name) at 
___________ (City), ____________ (Country) campus as an exchange student during the spring/fall semester from 
________(date) to __________(date).   
 
We have no objection to Ms/Mr. _____________________ visiting ________ (Country) and other states/c ountries in 
USA/Europe (Pl strike).  We request you to provide him with the required assistance and process his/her papers at your 
earliest convenience. 
 
Thanking you, 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
DEAN 
(School Name & Address) 
(Phone no & email)

=== page 58 ===
54 
 
 
UNDERTAKING For Foreign National Studying at SVKM’s NMIMS University 
(Applicable for Student Exchange) 
 
To 
SVKM’s NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University 
School of ___________________ 
Mumbai 
 
Sub: Arrived from ------------------- Partner University Abroad as part of Students' exchange program 
 
 
I, _________________________________ student of ---------------Partner University , studying Full Time 
_______________ (Course Name) from batch of year __________ have Joined___________Course at ----------School 
through an international student exchange program in the semester/trimester/annual term _______. 
 
I have gone through the Student Exchange Policy document and Student Resource Book and have volunteered to join 
the exchange program of my own will and with the consent of my parents/ guardian. I will adhere to the rules and 
regulations laid down in the MoU between Partner University and SVKM’s NMIMS University. I undertake to keep 
my institute /parents/guardian/family informed about details of my travel, my stay, and my whereabouts and well-being 
during my stay.   
 
I will adhere to the local law of the country (India) and will not involve or encourage any activity that may be a potential 
threat to the integrity, safety, and solidarity of India during my stay in the country. 
 
I promise to uphold the values and honour of the SVKM’s NMIMS  Deemed-to-be-University and fulfi ll my 
responsibilities as a student, and treat everyone with dignity and respect. I hereby declare that I have clearly understood 
& will follow the instructions given from time to time , and in case of a violation, not adhering to the expected code, I 
will be liable to suitable action as per SVKM’s NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University rules. 
 
I hereby agree to abide by the rules and regulations expected during the entire program.  
 
__________________________              _____________________ 
Name & Signature of the student        Date 
 
Mobile Phone Number: __________ (Self)   _____________  
 
 
Note :

=== page 59 ===
55 
 
Annexure 6 
 
Application for availing the facility of a Scribe/Writer during Examinations 
(To be submitted 7 days before the commencement of the Examination) 
For Office use:   
   
Date:__________________ 
To, 
The Controller of Examination       
SVKM’s NMIMS (Deemed-to-be University)  
Vile Parle (W), Mumbai 400056  
 
Dear Sir,  
I wish to avail the facility of a Scribe/Writer during the Examination as per the below mentioned details: 
Name of the Student: _________________________________________ Mobile No.:_____________________ 
Name of the School: __________________________________________________________________________ 
Name of Program: _______________________Roll No.___________ Student No.:______________________ 
Academic Year: __________________________Trimester/Semester: __________________ 
Type of Permanent /Temporary Physical Disability / Learning Disability: ________________ 
 
Permanent /Temporary Physical Disability / Learning Disability 
 
Details of Scribe being arranged by the undersigned 
Name of the scribe: _______________________________________________________ 
 
Educational Qualification (with proof - Identity card of the current academic year): _______________ 
 
Address and Contact No.:____________________________________________________________________ 
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
________________________________                                                             _______________________ 
Signature of the Student                   Date 
Enclosed: Medical Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner with the rubber stamp. 
Approved by (Exam. Dept)

=== page 60 ===
56 
 
Annexure 7 
Application for Duplicate Fee Receipt 
 
Sir/Madam, 
 
Kindly issue me a Duplicate Fee receipt, since I have lost my Original Fee receipt. 
Please find the particulars as under: 
 
Fee Receipt:   Year: ________   Hostel Fee Receipt:  Year: ________  
 
Name: ____________________________________________________________________  
  (Surname)   (Name)  (Middle Name) 
 
Course: ______________________________ Academic Year: _________________ 
 
Student Number __________________________________Roll No. _____________ 
 
Thanking you, 
  
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
_____________________ 
(Student’s Signature) 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  
 
DUPLICATE FEE RECEIPTS WILL BE ISSUED AFTER 7 DAYS ON: 
 
Office Remarks: 
 
Receipt No: ________________ Date: ______________ for Rs.100/- 
 
 
__________________ 
(Receiver’s Signature)

=== page 61 ===
57 
 
                                                                REFUND FORM                                                           Annexure 8 
           Date: ___________ 
 
• Excess Fees 
• Excess Deposit  
• Hostel Deposit 
(Please indicate as applicable) 
 
• SAP No. / Student No.  
• Student’s  Name  
• Student’s Address  
• Student’s contact number  
• School Name and Course   
• Email ID of the student  
 
Particulars of my bank for RTGS of the refundable amount are 
Account holder's Name:                        (Only 
student or parent's A/c information should be 
given.)   
Account No.:   
Bank Name:   
Bank Branch:   
IFSC:   
MICR:   
 
• Copy of Cancelled Cheque attached of the above -mentioned Bank account no.  (Without a Copy of the cancelled cheque 
refund will not be processed.) 
 
(Signature of Student) 
Attachments Required 
 
• Excess Fees/Excess Deposit Refund 
o Excess Fees/Excess Deposit - Original Receipt along with a photocopy of the Fees Receipt/Deposit Receipt. 
 
• Hostel Deposit Refund 
o Original Hostel Deposit Receipt signed by Hostel-in-charge & Mr. Venugopal. 
  
• Laboratory Deposit Refund 
o Original Laboratory Deposit Receipt signed by Laboratory In-Charge/Dean.

=== page 62 ===
58 
 
Annexure 9 
SVKM’s NMIMS 
 
APPLICATION FOR MIGRATION CERTIFICATE 
 
1.  Name: _________________________________________ 
 
2.  Address for Correspondence: ______________________________________ 
                                                     ______________________________________ 
                                                     ______________________________________ 
3.  Permanent address: ______________________________________________ 
                                      ______________________________________________ 
                                      _______________________________________________ 
4.   Contact No. :( M)  _________________ (R) ___________________ Email Id:__________________________ 
 
5.   Birth Date: ____________________ 
 
6.   Date of leaving: _________________ 
 
7.   Details of the Examination passed from this University 
 
 
Program name 
 
 
Year of 
passing/Year of 
Leaving 
 
Student Number 
 
Results 
    
 
 
 
 
8.  Name of the University where the student 
      Proposes to register his / her name and the 
      Name of the course.                                 _________________________________ 
 
9.  Name of the Institution where the  
     Student proposes to join                           __________________________________ 
 
DECLARATION BY THE STUDENT 
 
I hereby declare that I have not applied before for the Migration Certificate. 
 
I further declare that I have not registered myself for any course in any other University other than the one which I am 
now interested in to register myself as stated in column 7 above. 
 
 
Date: ___________________                                         ________________________ 
 
Mumbai 400056                                                                  (Signature of the student) 
          
Note :- Please attach the Photocopy of Final Year Mark sheet & Degree Certificate along with the application. 
P.T.O.

=== page 63 ===
59 
 
FOR OFFICE USE 
 
 
1.  Whether the Migration Certificate was              _____________________________ 
     Issued to him / her before? 
     If so, State the purpose for which it was obtained.                                                   
 
2.  If the Migration Certificate was not utilized     _____________________________ 
     State the approximate date and the year when                
     It was returned to the Institute for Cancellation.    
 
3.  Date on which Migration Certificate was issued ____________________________ 
     By the Institution last attended by the applicant. 
 
4. Other Particulars if necessary: ___________________________________________ 
 
 
The applicant has not been rusticated or debarred by the Institute, and I have no objection to a Migration Certificate  
being granted to him / her by the Institute. 
 
He / She has been a student of __________since, _________, 20 
And left in  ___________20    . 
 
I have ascertained and satisfied from the records that no application for a Migration Certificate on behalf o f thi s 
candidate was made previous to this date. 
 
                     _____________________ 
    (Signature of Head of the Dept) 
 
Place : _______________ 
 
Date : _______________ 
 
 
DETAILS OF MIGRATION CERTIFICATE ISSUED 
 
Certificate No: ______________                                                   Date: ______________ 
 
                                                                                   ________________________ 
                                                                           (Signature of the Person of In–Charge) 
________________________________________________________________________ 
 
INSTRUCTIONS TO THE STUDENT 
*  The prescribed fee of Rs. 250/- for the Migration Certificate to be paid through RTGS/NEFT. 
*  To get a Migration Certificate, a scanned copy of the application and the payment receipt must be shared.

=== page 64 ===
60 
 
Annexure 10 
Clearance Certificate 
Date: ____________ 
 
Name: ____________________________________________________________Contact No. _____________ 
Student SAP No. _________________________   Roll No. _____________ 
Programme:________________________________________   Semester/Trimester/Annual _____________ 
 
Department Name of the Concerned Person Signature 
 
Head of the Dept / Program 
Chairperson / Program co-ordinator 
 
Library ( Books ) Librarian / Person In Charge  
Hostel                                                
Applicable only for Hostellers 
Dy. Registrar (Admn) /  
Person In-charge 
 
IT / Computer Centre Director (IT) / Person In Charge  
Admissions 
Deputy Registrar (Admission) / or 
Person In-charge  
 
Examinations 
COE / Jt. COE / Deputy COE /  
Person In-charge  
 
 
Accounts 
 
Finance Controller / Additional 
Finance Controller / Person In-charge 
 
 
 
 
Course Coordinator    Deputy Registrar / Assistant Registrar   Dean / Director

=== page 65 ===
61 
 
Annexure 11 
OFFICE COPY 
 
Student Undertaking with Respect to the Student Guidelines 
(Submit this form to your Course Coordinator within 7 days from receipt of the Student Resource Book) 
 
 
I, ________________________________________________________ have read the Student Guidelines of 
SVKM’s NMIMS, School of ---------------------- enclosed carefully and have understood its contents and their 
ramifications. I will always uphold the values and honour of the school of------------------------, SVKM’s NMIMS. 
I promise to fulfill my responsibilities as a student and a human being and treat my coll eagues, Staff, and Faculty 
with dignity and respect. I hereby declare that I will follow the Student Guidelines and , in case of a violation, 
consent to action, in accordance with the Management’s decision. 
I hereby agree to abide by the rules and regulations of SVKM’s NMIMS in my role as a participant in this program. 
I agree that SVKM’s NMIMS has the right to make any changes as it may deem fit in terms of the program content, 
method of delivery, faculty, refund policy, evaluation norms, standard of passing, Guidelines, etc. I also agree that 
in case of any dispute or differences about the program, the decision of the Vice -Chancellor of SVKM’s NMIMS 
will be final and binding on all the participants.  
I understand that if I adopt any unfair means in the admission process and during the program, then my admission 
will be cancelled and all fees paid will be forfeited. 
 
I understand that if any comments are posted in social media or print, attempting to bring disrepute and defame the 
University, shall be treated very seriously and shall attract severe and  strict appropriate disciplinary action to the 
extent of rustication, depending on the severity, by SVKM’s NMIMS University. 
 
 
Student’s Signature: _________________                                        Parent’s Signature: ___________________  
 
Name: ___________________________________________________________________________________  
                   (First Name)                       (Middle Name)                             (Last Name)  
 
Date of Birth: (dd/mm/yy) _______________________ Student SAP No._____________________________  
 
Roll Number: _______________ Programme:___________________________________________________  
 
Email ID: ________________________________________ Contact Nos._______________/_______________  
 
Address for Correspondence:  
__________________________________________________________________________________________  
__________________________________________________________________________________________  
__________________________________________________________________________________________  
 
Name of the parent _____________________________Contact Nos: _______________/________________  
 
Office No: ___________________   Residence No.: __________________ Mobile: ______________________  
Parent’s email ID ____________________________________________________________________________  
 
For Office Use :  
 
Date of Receipt: __________________         Signature of Course Coordinator ___________________

=== page 66 ===
SVKM'S
NMIMS
Dermed ouhr UNIVERSITY
NMIMS Anthem
We do what's rightandnot what's easy
Wegve our best shot each andevery dme We setthe standard
We are the future
We are a part of this institute so fine
NMIMSNMIMS
NMIMSNMINMS
Respect the past
Createthe future
Transcend horizons however far
We have what ittakes
Wemake a greatteam
AtNMiMs each oneisastar
NMIMSNMIMS
NMIMSNMIMS
62

=== page 67 ===
Mukesh Patel School
of Technology
Management  and
Engineering
Student Resource  Book
Part II

=== page 68 ===
Message from Dean 
 
 
Dear Student, 
Welcome to the Mukesh Patel School of Technology, Management and Engineering, SVKM's 
Deemed to be NMIMS University! 
As you embark on your journey as student engineers, I extend my warmest welcome to each of 
you. This is an exciting time filled with new possibilities, challenges, and opportunities for growth. 
At NMIMS, we are committed to providing you with an exceptional educational experience that 
prepares you for the real world. Our curriculum is designed to equip you with the essential skills 
and knowledge to become successful engineers who can make a positive impact on the world. 
Our approach to engineering education is rooted in the belief that engineers are not just problem 
solvers, but also creators and innovators. You will be challenged to think critically, analyze 
complex systems, and design creative solutions that address real-world challenges. You will also 
have the opportunity to put your ideas into practice through hands -on projects, internships, and 
research experiences. 
Remember, being a student engineer is not just about acquiring technical knowledge. It's also about 
developing essential professional skills such as communication, teamwork, ethical awareness, and 
a commitment to lifelong learning. These skills are crucial for success in any engineering career. 
As you navigate your academic journey, I encourage you to take full advantage of the resources 
and support systems available to you. Our dedicated faculty and staff are committed to your 
success and will provide guidance and mentorship throughout your time here. 
I also encourage you to embrace the vibrant campus life and engage in extracurricular activities 
that will broaden your horizons and help you develop your personal and professional skills. 
This is a time for you to dream big, set  ambitious goals, and work diligently to achieve them. 
Remember, your journey as a student engineer is just beginning. With hard work, dedication, and 
a commitment to excellence, you can achieve anything you set your mind to. 
Welcome to the NMIMS family! W e are excited to have you on board and look forward to 
witnessing your success. 
Best wishes, 
Dean, Mukesh Patel School of Technology, Management and Engineering 
SVKM's Deemed to be NMIMS University

=== page 69 ===
Content 
 
Sr. No. Details Page No. 
 PART – II   
1.  Academic/General inputs, Rules Policies  1 
2.  Placement Guidelines 4 
3.  International linkages 7 
4.  
Examination Guidelines (ICA / TEE, Passing Criteria, Grading system, 
method of calculation of CGPA, Re-Examination, exceptional cases – 
medical etc.) 
8 
5.  Admission Policy to D.Voc candidates to B Tech First year and Lateral 
admission 13 
6.  Course Structures  14 
7.  Introduction of AI and Emerging Technologies Credits through Coursera 95 
8.  Academic Calendar 100 
9.  List of Holidays For The Year 2026 102 
10.  People you should know (School Administration) 103

=== page 70 ===
1 
 
1. Academic/general inputs, Rules Policies at school level 
 
1.1 General Guidelines   
 
• All students are expected to be professionally dressed and groomed to maintain decency and decorum of the 
“profession”.  For girl students, off shoulder tops/spaghetti tops/crop tops/transparent dress/shorts are strictly 
not allowed. 
• The use of cell phones in class rooms /laboratories is strictly prohibited. Strict action will be taken against 
students using cell phones in the class room/laboratories. 
• Misconduct of any sort from any student will be dealt with strictly. Any student resorting to any indecent, 
unruly behaviour or found causing disturbance, annoyance or raising voice for any reason  which results in 
irritating or disturbing any other person, shall be considered as ‘misconduct’ and will be dealt with accordingly. 
 
1.2 Academic Guidelines 
The school uses Learning Management System (LMS) Student Portal for smooth conduction of academic and  
Administrative activities.  
 
Student Portal (LMS) is available to get updates on the following: 
i. Notices 
ii. Daily Attendance 
iii. Internal Continuous Assessment 
iv. Examination 
v. Teaching Scheme and Syllabus  
vi. Any announcements related to student activities 
 
Students are advised to check the student portal regularly for updates. 
 
URL: https://portal.svkm.ac.in/usermgmt/login  
For more details, refer to Part I,   
 
1.3 Contact hours and credit details are as follows: - From Part I 
 
Details Credit Equivalence in hrs. 
per week 
Total Hours in 15 weeks 
of a Semester 
Class room teaching 1 1 15 
Lab/presentation of work 1 2 30 
Tutorial 1 1 15 
 
Credits for Internship / In -Plant Training and Projects of MBA Tech., B. Tech. and Diploma programs are as per the 
approved Teaching scheme. 
 
1.4 Program Validity 
 
In continuation to the re -admission rules explained in Part I of this SRB, the maximum duration permissible for 
completion of each of the programmes is mentioned in the table below:  
 
S. No.   Name of the 
programme  
Duration of the 
programme (in years)  
Maximum duration permissible for 
completion the programme (in years)  
1 MBA Tech 5 7 
2 B Tech 4 6 
3 Diploma 3 6 
4 M Tech 2 4 
5 MCA 2 4 
6 Ph. D 3 6

=== page 71 ===
2 
 
1.5 Discipline Norms and Penalty 
 
In continuation to the Discipline Norms and Penalty explained in Part I of this SRB, the names of committee members 
of the school are as follows: 
 
1.5.1 Anti-Ragging Committee 
 
1. Dr. Koteswararao Anne Chairperson Koteswararao.Anne@nmims.edu 42334008 
2. Dr. Dhirendra Mishra Member Secretary Dhirendra.Mishra@nmims.edu 42334067 
3. Dr. Geetha Iyer Member Geetha.Iyer@nmims.edu 45024853 
4. Senior Inspector Member (Police) juhupolicestation@gmail.com 26183856 
5. Ms. Manjusha Joshi NGO  9619102215 
6. Dr Ami Munshi Parent Member Ami.munshi@nmims.edu 49330556 
7. Dr. Ajay Phirke Member Ajay.phirke@nmims.edu 42334097 
8. Ms. Anjali Barmukh Member Anjali.Barmukh@nmims.edu 42334009 
9. Ms. Tushita Shetty Member (Lady Representative) tushita.shetty27@nmims.in 9967900012 
10. Ms. Shreshtha Bindal Student Member shreshtha.bindal26@nmims.in 7611011899 
11. Mr. Soham Sawant Student Member soham.sawant01@nmims.in 9082474542 
 
1.5.2 Disciplinary Committee 
 
1. Dr Sudipto Sarkar Convener Sudipto.Sarkar@nmims.edu 49330511 
2. Dr Pintu Shah Member Pintu.Shah@nmims.edu 45024747 
3. Dr Deepti Reddy Member deepti.reddy@nmims.edu 45024864 
4. Dr Manishkumar Tiwari Member Manishkumar.Tiwari@nmims.edu  49330569 
5. Dr Manoj Anaokar  Member Manoj.Anaokar@nmims.edu 42334060 
6. Dr Vineet Panchal Member Vineet.panchal@nmims.edu 42334037 
7. Ms. Anjali Barmukh Member Anjali.Barmukh@nmims.edu 42334009 
8. Ms. Ketki Gokhale Member Ketki.gokhale@nmims.edu 42334090 
 
1.5.3 Woman Grievance Redressal Committee 
 
1. Dr. Archana Bhise Chairperson archana.bhise@nmims.edu 42334069 
2. Dr. Ashwini Rao Member Secretary Ashwini.Rao@nmims.edu 45024792 
3. Dr. Swati Donde Member Swati.Donde@nmims.edu 45024722 
4. Dr. Jinu Kurian Member Jinu.Kurian@nmims.edu 45024708 
5. Dr Ashish Deshmukh Member Ashish.Deshmukh@nmims.edu 42334011 
6. Dr Mahesh Naik Member Mahes.naik@nmims.edu 45020528 
7. Ms. Siddhi Gandhi Member (Lady Representative) siddhi.gandhi05@nmims.in 8850969672 
8. Mr. Anadya Sharma Student Member anadya.sharma46@nmims.in 8169691530 
 
1.5.4 Internal Complaints Committee 
 
 
1.5.5 Caste Discrimination Committee / Equal Opportunity Cell 
 
1. Dr. Shubha Puthran Chairperson shubha.puthran@nmims.edu 45024760 
2. Dr. Abhay Kumar Member Secretary abhay.kumar@nmims.edu 45024858 
3. Prof Sheetal Gonsalves Member  Sheetal.Gonsalves@nmims.edu 45024739 
4. Dr Ashish Deshmukh Parent Member Ashish.Deshmukh@nmims.edu 42334011 
5. Ms Aparna Mahesh Staff Member Aparna.Mahesh@nmims.edu 42334029 
6. Mr. Kaunteya Goyal Student Member Kaunteya.goyal26@nmims.in 9828011985 
1. Dr. Koteswararao Anne Chairperson Dean.MPSTME@nmims.edu 42334008 
2. Dr. Manoj Sankhe Member Secretary Manoj.Sankhe@nmims.edu 42334092 
3. Prof. Dharmesh Rathod Member Dahrmesh.rathod@nmims.edu 45024783 
4. Prof. Rashmi Patel Member Rashmi.Patel@nmims.edu 45024720 
5. Ms. Gauri Pedgulkar Staff Member Gauri.Pedgulkar@nmims.edu 42334003 
6. Ms. Jiah Kothari Student Member JIAH.KOTHARI66@nmims.in 8369335893

=== page 72 ===
3 
 
1.5.6 Collegiate / Institutional Student Grievance Redressal Committee 
 
1.5.7 Departmental Student Grievance Redressal Committee 
 
 
1.6 Roles and Responsibilities of Class Representative  
 
Class Representative: The Class Representative (CR)  serves as an important link between the students of the 
division, the faculty, and the administration, facilitating effective communication and coordination.   
 
Selection Process  
• The first t hree students, based on their Class XII aggregate marks , will be nominated for the role of 
Class Representative. 
• After interaction and discussion with the Head of Department (HoD) , the final Class Representative 
(CR) will be selected. 
 
Roles and Responsibilities 
The major roles and responsibilities of the Class Representative include: 
• Acting as the primary point of contact between the students, faculty, and the administration for academic and 
class-related matters 
• Coordinating with faculty and students regarding lecture schedules, academic activities, assignments, and 
other class-related communications 
• Building a positive rapport with Class Representatives of other divisions and coordinating on matters of 
common interest. 
• The CR is not authorized to cancel, postpone, or reschedule lectures directly with  the faculty. 
• Any additional responsibilities assigned by the School/Department/HoD from time to time. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Dr. Koteswararao Anne Chairperson Koteswararao.Anne@nmims.edu 42334008 
2. Dr. Vaishali Kulkarni Member Secretary Vaishali.Kulkarni@nmims.edu 42334073 
3. Dr. Meenal Mategaonkar Member Meenal.mategaonkar@nmims.edu 42334076 
4. Dr. Dhirendra Mishra Member dhirendra.Mishra@nmims.edu 42334067 
5. Dr. Nishita Parekh Member  nishita.parekh@nmims.edu 42334017 
6. Dr. Dattatray Sawant Member dattatray.sawant@nmims.edu 45024863 
7. Ms. Sania Shah Member (Lady 
Representative) sania.shah63@nmims.in 9821025438 
8. Ms. Garima Sar Student Representative garima.sar06@nmims.in 8850041727 
 B Tech     
1. Dr Meenal Mategaonkar Chairperson Meenal.mategaonkar@nmims.edu 42334076 
2. Dr Pravin Srinath Member Pravin.Srinath@nmims.edu 42334018 
3. Mr. Sudarshan Bhange Member Sudarshan.Bhange@nmims.edu 49669729 
4. Ms. Shreshtha Bindal Student Representative shreshtha.bindal26@nmims.in 7611011899 
 MBA Tech    
1. Dr. Geetha Iyer Chairperson Geetha.Iyer@nmims.edu 45024853 
2. Ms. Vidya Raul Member Vidya.Raul@nmims.edu 49330572 
3. Prof. Rejo Mathew Member Rejo.mathew@nmims.edu 45024781 
4. Mr. Neel Panday Student Representative neel.panday38@nmims.in 8591688921 
 Diploma    
1. Dr. Ajay Phirke Chairperson Ajay.phirke@nmims.edu 42334097 
2. Dr Vikram Kulkarni Member vikram.kulkrani@nmims.edu 45024733 
3. Dr Ravi Terkar Member Ravi.Terkar@nmims.edu 42334075 
4. Mr. Prachin Patil Member Prachin.patil@nmims.edu 49330578 
5. Ms. Tushita Shetty Student Representative tushita.shetty27@nmims.in 9967900012

=== page 73 ===
4 
 
2. Placement Guidelines 
 
The MPSTME was established to create an innovative space for technology education and management practices aligned 
with industry and societal needs. The goal is to offer a comprehensive platform for engineers to integrate their knowledge 
into creating technology that addresses the changing needs of today's world . 
  
The MPSTME placements team guides students for landing a role aligned with their aspirations and taking their first steps in 
the corporate world. 
 
Placement assistance is offered to students of various programs across all campuses. The Placement Office facilitates the 
process of placements – internship and recruitment by creating an interface between recruiters and students. Efforts are made 
to market the programs with their merits with an endeavour to get companies to offer internships/recruit students. The 
selection process specified by the company is followed. The PlaceCom - Placement Committee of students is actively involved 
in the placement activities – contacting/visiting companies located in metros and major cities for placement presentations and 
also coordinate various activities during the placement processes.    
 
The Placement Office devises placement guidelines that are in the larger interest of the School and students, in consultation  
with students and faculty. Students are expected to maintain decorum and abide by the guidelines during placement processes. 
In the event of non-conformance to the placement guidelines, the School reserves the right to initiate corrective action.    
 
The Placement process typically involves – 
• Batch Preparation          
• Pre Placement Talks  
• Internships/Projects       
• Final Placements  
 
2.1 Batch Preparation 
The Comprehensive Batch Preparation Program is to enhance the suitability of candidates and orient them to industry practices 
and expectations. 
a. Alumni and industry expert sessions provide valuable insights for studen ts, helping them understand their roles in 
the industry, company expectations, future career prospects, interview techniques, and firsthand experiences in 
various roles.  
b. Assigning faculty mentors to guide students.  
c. Interaction with seniors who have undergone internships and are working full time to gain insights of the corporate 
world. 
d. Mock interviews with alumni/corporates to get a direct feedback from people in relevant  industries. 
e. Guest talks and workshops on various topics from corporates.  
f. Resume building as per guidelines and vetting by faculty mentors. 
g. Training modules covering Aptitude, Technical and Employability Skills.  
 
2.1.1 The placement team advises students to ta ke part in placement prep training modules in order to boost their 
likelihood of being chosen for campus selection 
2.1.2 Prior to the commencement of the selection process it is expected that students should be having a fair idea about 
their interest, sector and specialization or at least have some long term vision of where they want to be and should 
direct their efforts accordingly. A bit of clarity will help students land a good internship/job.  
2.1.2 Hence students should do a thorough research about the company, th e business, the sector, other players in the 
sector, the technologies, the services or products, the financials etc. and be prepared with a background and fact 
file prior to the process. Also some additional information – the number of interns/recruits in the past, whether the 
company has a PPO policy, the roles offered, the experience of seniors who interned / worked with the company 
etc. will be of help.       
2.1.3 The Placement Office also involves companies in a number of Campus Engagement activities – contests, 
hackathons, projects, workshops, seminars, guest talks etc. that would benefit a larger number of students and also 
help in promoting the excellent quality of the batch. 
2.1.4 Based on the guidelines, students will have to prepare their resume that would en capsulate information about 
academics, projects, certifications, technical skills, internship, co -curricular activities, extracurricular activities, 
awards, achievements, hobbies etc. 
 
 
2.2 Pre-Placement Talk – PPT 
PPTs are used by company officials to share information and answer students' questions. This helps them assess the 
student pool confidently. Students are encouraged to participate and ask relevant questions .

=== page 74 ===
5 
 
2.3 Final Placements 
2.3.1 Leading companies across sectors aspire to recruit students of MPSTME. Each company has its own set of  
characteristics or qualities that they look for in a candidate. Hence, the company devises the eligibility criteria  
and selection process accordingly.  
2.3.2 The process of selection starts with inviting applications based on the eligibility, profile, job description,  
compensation details shared by the company. The student applications are then sent to companies for further  
shortlisting. Students are required to check their emails/Placement Portal/Student Portal, etc. regul arly for 
 information updates.  
2.3.3 Every effort will be made to facilitate the placement process. However, it is the effort of the student that gets  
him/her selected for the job.  
2.3.4 Companies could have one or multiple rounds for selection – case analysis, group discussion, group exercises,  
aptitude test, technical test, coding test, psychometric assessment, interviews etc. Reasons like location, family  
issues etc. should not be constraints to students. They are expected to be mobile and have the capability to  
 adjust and adapt and respond to emergent situations successfully.  
2.3.5 Students who do not wish to participate in the placement process are expected to formally notify the Placement  
Office vide the ‘Opted Out Form’ mentioning the reason, which could be higher studies, entrepreneurship,  
family business, preparation for public services exam, seeking placements on their own giving with the names  
of such companies and details. The reason being, to iron out any hitches that may crop up later as the Placement  
Office approaches many companies and would like to continue the cordial relationship with them.      
 
            The Placement Department will share guidelines for resumes, presentations, internships, job offers, and final placements  
with the batch. The school reserves the right to modify the guidelines. Students must follow the internship and placement 
guidelines provided by the department before the process begins.  
 
2.4 Internships/Projects 
2.4.1 The Placement Office makes all efforts to reach out for internships across varied sectors, comp anies and 
profiles. Based on ones’ interests and capabilities one should seek internships. Choosing the correct company 
for internships and performing up to the mark is of utmost importance.  
2.4.2 The Internships are not only a window to the corporate world but  also a relationship-building tool. It allows 
the companies to have a look at the talent, thereby strengthening Final Placements.  
2.4.3 Internships are an integral part of the curriculum for securing the degree. It is a great learning platform for 
our students a nd goes a long way in shaping the learning obtained in the classroom. This experience is of 
immense use to students to enable them to acclimatize themselves to the intricacies of the corporate world.  
2.4.4 The project is expected to build on the theoretical lea rning with practical experience and help students to 
identify the gaps in their learning, which they can attempt to fill in.  
2.4.5 Interactions during the internships both with other interns as well as employees help students to understand 
the expectations/needs of the organisation, the sector in general, to identify the gaps in their learning and in 
orienting oneself towards the sector and developing the required skill sets to emerge as the most suitable 
candidate.  
2.4.6 Internships also hold a special significance as it is an apt mechanism for companies to spot bright talent early. 
Many companies have structured internship process which is used as a ‘testing ground’ to gain a direct 
understanding of the skill and ability of students leading to declaration of PPO’s/P PI’s. We encourage 
candidates to work towards such offers that are based on internship performance.  
2.4.7 Pre-Placement Offer (PPO) is an Offer by the company to the intern acknowledging the excellent work done 
during the internship. Pre -Placement Interview (PP I) is an opportunity by the company for the intern to be 
directly selected for the interview for final placements. Thus, the students should be careful in applying to 
the companies of their choice and should put in all efforts to convert the internship int o an Offer. Thus, the 
seriousness of this cannot be overstated. 
2.4.8 Internship duration for B Tech, and MCA – entire semester (during last semester of the year). MBA Tech 
Program has 2 internships, Technical Internship post 6 Semester -8 weeks and Management Internship post 
8th Semester – 16 weeks. Internship Placement Guidelines will be shared by the Placement Cell prior to the 
Placement season.  Students should go through the Guidelines thoroughly and adhere to the same. While 
feedback from the company is sought, the internship is also evaluated by the School that could involve faculty 
guide monitoring the performance; periodic report submissions, evaluations, Viva Voce etc.  
 
 
2.5 Internship / project Guidelines 
 
There shall be following opportunities of industry interaction for MBA (Tech) students:  
i. MBA Tech Technical Internship Program (TIP) for 8 weeks after Third Year  
ii. Management Internship Program (MIP) of 14 -16 weeks (May to 1st week of September) after Fourt h 
Year for MBA Tech

=== page 75 ===
6 
 
2.5.1 MBA Tech Technical Internship Program (TIP) (Training) 
a. TIP will be for 6-8 weeks after semester VI. 
b. The objective of TIP is to provide an overview of the working of the industries and the latest technology 
and practices followed in the field chosen by the student. The objective is also to provide an appreciation of 
the practical application of the theory learned in the class.  
c. MPSTME will assist the students in selecting the right industry in their field of specialization and arrange 
for an Industry mentor and faculty supervisor to help the student and monitor his/her progress.  
d. The TIP operational guidelines covering the process and the evaluation criteria will be shared in semester 
V of the program. 
2.5.2       B Tech Technical Internship Program 
The students may undergo an optional training (self-organized, 4-6 weeks) during the summer vacation  
(May and June) after the completion of 3rd year (after semester VI examinations).  
 
2.5.3 MBA Tech Management Internship Program (Training) 
The training shall be of 14 -16 weeks duration commencing at the end of 8 th semester. The objective shall 
be to get an all- round exposure for students and enhance their skills in industrial project working with the 
thrust on managerial content in t heir respective technology sectors. The training shall comprise of project 
work, which shall be in the area of the discipline in which the student is majoring in. Further, the project 
shall preferably have Technical and Management content. (i.e. It shall be of a techno-managerial nature). 
Projects could be multidisciplinary in nature. Total Marks: 200 
 
2.5.4 Project – B Tech (Semester VIII) / BTI (Semester XII) 
The principal objective of this course is to provide a culminating design experience to the final -year 
students’ learning with essentially required hands -on experience to ensure that they graduate with the 
required practical and soft skills. It aims to expose the students to the entire product development life cycle 
starting from literature review, feasibil ity study, analysis, design, development and validation so as to 
enhance the technical skill sets in the chosen field. The course also provides an opportunity to the students 
for the development of their academic skills and logical thinking, oral communication skills, teamwork and 
planning.  
The continuous assessment of the project work will be carried out based on the weekly performance, 
discussions and reporting to faculty and industry mentor. The final evaluation will be carried out by 
industry/academic experts at the end of the semester 
 
2.5.5 B Tech / MBA Tech Summer Training 
The students can undergo an optional training (self-organized, 4-6 weeks) during the summer vacation (May 
 and June) after the completion of 2nd year (after semester IV examinations).

=== page 76 ===
7 
 
3. MPSTME International linkages 
  
The NMIMS Department of International Linkages (DIL) fosters partnerships with premier institutions around the world to 
enhance NMIMS standing as a world-class institution.  DIL has actively engaged with leading institutions around the world 
to foster student and faculty exchange, research collaboration and cross-cultural learning in line with the University’s Vision 
to be a globally admired University by 2030 .  Under the Twining Agreements/ Dual Degree programs students study a part 
of their program at MPS TME, NMIMS and then go and complete the rest of the program at a partner University abroad. 
Students may apply and attend summer schools in universities abroad. Further details are available 
at https://engineering.nmims.edu/mpstme-international-linkages/.  Students can fill in the enquiry form on that website if 
they have any further queries. 
 
To aggressively pursue the internalization agenda, NMIMS has signed MOUs with  leading Universities. MOUs  
applicable for NMIMS schools as given below:  
 
The University Level: 
 
• University of California, Berkeley, USA  
• University of Southern California -Marshall School of Business, USA 
• Arizona State University, USA 
• The University of Zaragoza, SPAIN 
• Varna University of Management, Bulgaria 
• The University of Danang, VIETNAM 
• Quang Binh University, Vietnam 
• Kings College London, UK 
• Aston University, UK 
• City St Georges, University of London, UK 
• University of Reading, UK 
• University of Western Australia, Australia 
• Monash University, Australia 
• James Cook University, Australia 
• University of Melbourne, Australia 
• Tampere University, Finland 
• EDHEC Business School, France 
• Excelia France 
• University of Erlangen – Nuernberg (FAU), Germany 
 
MPSTME International Linkages 
• Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, USA 
• Stevens Institute of Technology, USA 
• Binghamton University, New York, USA 
• Santa Clara University, California, USA 
• Monash University, Australia 
• The University at Buffalo, USA 
• Karlsruhe University of Applied Sciences (HKA), Germany 
• HTWG Konstanz University of Applied Sciences, Germany 
• University of Exeter,UK 
• Oakland University, USA 
• TUM Asia 
• Fordham Gabelli School of Business, New York City, United States 
• Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles 
• Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Massachusetts 
• University of Toledo, Ohio, USA 
  
  Contact Details: 
Name – Dr. Dhirendra Mishra 
Designation – Professor, Computer Engineering, Professor-in charge of International Relations,  
Email ID - dhirendra.Mishra@nmims.edu

=== page 77 ===
8 
 
4. Examination Guidelines (Internal Continuous Assessment (ICA) / Term / Semester End Examination (TEE/ 
SEE), Passing Criteria, Grading system, method of calculation of CGPA, Re -Examination, exceptional cases – 
medical etc.) 
 
Examination weightages and credits: 
 
A student will undergo Internal Continuous Assessment (ICA) for each course/subject in all the semesters. Various 
components of such continuous assessment would be as decided by the respective course/subject teacher/ faculty and 
approved by the Dean /Director of the school/campus concerned. 
 
Break up for evaluation of each course will be as under: 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
4.1   PASSING STANDARDS FOR EACH COURSE (SUBJECT):  
Semester-end-exam Passing Criteria for each Course:  
 
To pass in a particular course, in any of the Term / Semester End examination or re - examination, a student 
must fulfil all of the following criteria: 
• Secure a minimum of 40% marks in the Term / Semester end examination of that course and  
 
• Secure a minimum of 40% aggregate marks out of the total marks (that is, internal continuous assessment 
plus assessment of the Term / Semester end examination) allotted to the course. 
 
• For a course which has only internal continuous assessment component, passing will be at 40%.  
 
Students who fail to fulfil above passing criteria would be awarded ‘F’ grade.  
 
4.2 Non – fulfillment of Passing Criteria: 
 
A student, who has failed to fulfil the passing criteria as given above in 4.1, will be required to appear for term / 
semester-end re-examination, which will be conducted immediately after declaration of results of the said regular 
term / semester-end examination. The internal continuous assessment marks for such courses will be carried 
forward for the term / semester-end re-examination.  
To be eligible to appear for term / semester -end re -examination, a student has to submit online re -examination 
application available on student’s SAP portal as per notification. A student who does not fill in online re -
examination form will be denied permission to appear at the re-examination.   
It is the responsibility of such students to keep him/ her informed about such examination dates (time table) published 
on student’s portal. If, in any case, student feels that he/she wants to improve their ICA, he/ she will have to take re 
admission for the complete academic year. In case of re-admission, the earlier results will stand null & void and student 
cannot claim the credits of the course/s passed earlier. Student will have to appear as a fresh candidate for both Internal 
Continuous Assessment & Term End Examinations. 
Only one re -examination will be conducted for each course immediately after declaration of results of final 
examination and there will not be any further re-examination for whatsoever reason (in an admission Academic Year). 
Remedial classes would be organized by the School for all the students who fai l to fulfil the passing criteria, 
before the conduct of the re -examination. However, these remedial classes will be on demand from students 
and if a student registers for remedial classes, he / she is expected to maintain 100% attendance. If any student 
feels that he / she can manage without remedial classes, students can study on their own and appear for the 
re-examination, later on, such students cannot complain that their doubts were not cleared by faculty.  
Note: Remedial classes will be conducted by the faculty on demand, if number of students are more than 10. 
Otherwise, students can get their doubts cleared from the faculty on one to one basis.  
Component Marks 
ICA Components: Mid Term / Unit Test / Project/ Assignment / 
Presentation/ Weekly Tests / Case Study/ Quizzes / any other                          
(by School) 
 
50 
SEE – Term / Semester-end examination (by University) 100 (scaled down 
to 50 marks) 
Total 100

=== page 78 ===
9 
 
 
4.3 Promotion/progression Rules and ATKT (Allowed to Keep Terms): B. Tech. /  MBA (Tech.)/ Diploma  
 
4.3.1 A student will be declared as pass in each year of the programme when he/ she has no F grade in an academic  
year after permissible re-examination/s. 
 
4.3.2 Student who has passed in all the courses/subjects (as per the criteria laid down hereinunder) of Semester I and II 
examinations of the first academic year will be promoted to the second year of the concerned programme.  
   
               A student who has passed in all the subjects of Semester III and IV examinations of the second year will be  
               promoted to the third year of the concerned programme.  
 
               A student who has passed in all the subjects of Semester V and VI examinations of the third year will be     
               promoted to the fourth year of the concerned programme.   
 
A student who has passed in all the subjects of Semester VII and VIII examinations of the fourth years will be promoted 
to the fifth year of the concerned programme (wherever applicable). Further; 
 
 
• As regards to the admission to the third year, students must have passed the examinations of all the 
courses/subjects of first year. Student should not have any F grade in the first year of the programme.  
 
• For admission to the fourth year, students must h ave passed the examinations of all the courses/subjects of 
second year. Student should not have any F grade in the second year of the programme.  
 
• Similarly, for admission to the fifth year, students must have passed the examinations of all the 
courses/subjects of third year (wherever applicable).  Student should not have any F grade in the third year 
of the programme. 
 
4.3.3 A student who has failed to fulfill the passing criteria of odd semesters courses after re-examination, will be allowed 
to attend the classes and appear at the examination/ re-examination of even semesters.  For example, a student who 
fails in Semester I examination will be permitted to attend lectures and appear at Term -End examinations of 
Semester II. This criterion will apply to the subsequent years also.  Such students will be allowed to appear at term-
end re-examination of the courses/subjects where the student has obtained ‘F’ grade. The internal assessment marks 
obtained by the students will be carried forward. Students are advised to k eep track of the examination / re - 
examination timetables. The examination/ re examination time table are displayed on University website and also 
students portal. 
However, student progression to the subsequent year will be determined with reference to the  following rule. 
 
4.3.4 A student who has obtained up to two ‘F’ grades in B Tech / MBA Tech/ Diploma program in an academic year after 
the said re-examinations will also be allowed to enter in the next year of the program. Such students will be required to 
appear for re-examinations of courses where the student concerned has obtained F grade during the related Semester -
end examinations / re-examinations along-with the regular students of next year. 
 
4.3.5 Student, who has obtained more than two “F” grades in an academic year (including both the semesters) after respective 
permissible re-examinations, would not be promoted to the next year of the programme. 
 
A) Such students can either take readmission in the subsequent year for the entire academic year and re -do 
all the courses, that is both the ICA and TEE components.  
 
OR 
 
B) Student who has got more than two “F” grades in an academic year (including both the semesters)  who 
are not eligible for promotion as per progression rule and do not want to take readmission are allowed to 
take “year back” and appear for the term end re -examination for failed courses after paying necessary 
examination fees. Such students who appear for the term end re -examination, their internal component 
assessment (ICA) marks will be carried forward to the next academic year and they will be appearing only 
for the term end re-examination (TEE). 
 
 
4.3.6 Examination conducted by the school -if any – The re -examination of such courses will be held with the re -
examination of the courses conducted by university. The Examination will be held only for the TEE component; 
however, the ICA marks will remain unchanged. If a student fails in re -examination (Refer pas sing criteria) and after

=== page 79 ===
10 
 
application of progression rule, if student is not eligible for promotion, he /she will have to take re -admission for the 
entire year or appear for the re-examination by opting non attending option. 
 
4.3.7 Courses with only ICA evaluation 
 
There is no provision of re-examination under this category. The student will have to take re-admission in the 
same semester in the subsequent academic year of the programme. 
 
5. Promotion Rules: M. Tech. / MCA  
 
A student will be promoted to the subsequent year of the programme only when he/ she has no F grade in the 
year after re-examinations. 
 
 
Non – fulfillment of Passing Criteria M. Tech. / MCA 
 
A student, who has failed to fulfil the passing criteria as given above in 4.1, will be required to appear for term / 
semester-end re-examination which will be conducted immediately after declaration of results of the said regular term 
/ semester-end examination. The internal continuous assessment marks will be carried forward for the term / semester-
end re-examination.  
To be eligible to appear for term / semester -end re-examination, a student has to submit an online re -examination 
application available on student’s SAP portal as per notification. A student who does not fill in online re -examination 
form will be denied permission to appear at the re-examination.   
It is the responsibility of such students to keep him/ her informed about such examination dates (time table) published 
on student’s portal. If, in any case, students feels that he/she wants to improve their ICA, they are eligible to take re 
admission for the complete academic year. In case of re-admission, the earlier results will stand null & void and student 
cannot claim the credits of the course/s passed earlier. Students have to appear as fresh candidates for both Internal 
Continuous Assessment & Term End Examinations. 
Only one re-examination will be conducted for each course immediately after declaration of results of final 
examination and there will not be any further re-examination for whatsoever reason. 
 
a. Examination conducted by the School -if any – The re-examination of such courses/subjects will be held with 
the re -examination of the subjects conducted by University. The Examination will be held only for the TEE 
component; however, the ICA marks will remain unchanged. If a student fails in re -examination (Refer passing 
criteria) 4.1 and after application of progression rule, if student is not eligible for promotion, he /she will have to 
take re-admission for the entire year or appear for the re-examination by opting non attending option. 
 
b. Courses with only ICA component – If a student does not satisfy passing criteria there will be no re -
examination, the student has to take re-admission in the same semester in the subsequent academic year.    
 
Promotion/progression Rules : M. Tech. / MCA 
 
A student who has failed to fulfill the passing criteria of odd semesters courses after re-examination, will be allowed 
to attend the classes and appear at the examination/ re-examination of even semesters.  
However, a student who fails to fulfill the passing criteria at the end of the academic year (Both semesters included) 
will not be permitted to progress to the next year of the program. 
A student will be promoted to the subsequent year of the programme only when he/ she has no F grade at the end of the 
year after eligible re-examination/s. 
 
In case, the student fails even in the re-examination/s of either odd or even semesters, which are so held, he/ she will not 
be promoted to the next year of the programme.  Such student/s will have the following options:  
 
To seek readmission in the subsequent year for the entire academic year. 
Or 
Appear for the Term end reexamination of the course/s in which the student has got “F” grade, in the subsequent year.  
In such a case, the ICA marks of the course/s will be carried forward of the previous year in w hich the student had got 
“F” grade. The student will be required to pay only the re -examination fees.  In case of obtaining F grades even in this 
attempt, student will be given another re -examination chance to clear the same.  In total, year -back students will have 
only two re-exam attempts during the academic year.

=== page 80 ===
11 
 
6. Re-Examination Application and Fee Details 
a. The fee for submission of a re-examination application shall be Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees One Thousand only) per    
subject. 
b. The online application portal fo r re-examination will remain open for three (3) days as per the dates notified 
along with the re-examination timetable. The portal will close on the third day at 4:00 PM.  
c. Students who do not submit their applications within the prescribed application peri od (as mentioned above) 
will be allowed to submit their application with late fees of Rs. 5000/- through the online SAP student’s portal.    
d.  Portal for application with late fees will remail open for 24 hrs.   after the closure of the regular application 
period. 
e. Applications submitted during the late application window shall be made along with late fee of Rs. 5,000/ - 
(Rupees Five Thousand only), in addition to the prescribed re -examination fee of Rs. 1,000/- per subject. The 
late fee shall be applicable irrespective of the number of subjects applied for. 
f. No re-examination application shall be accepted after the closure of the late application period. (4th day 4.00 
p.m.) 
 
7. Grading System: 
The University follows a letter grading system leading to the award of a Ten-Point Grade Point Average (GPA) for each 
term and Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) for all the terms until date.  
 
‘Letter grades’ and corresponding ‘grade points’ are as under: 
 
Percentage of Marks  Grade Points Performance  
90 100 O  10 Outstanding 
80 89.99 A+ 9 Excellent 
70 79.99 A 8 Very Good 
60 69.99 B+  7 Good 
55 59.99 B 6 Above Average 
50 54.99 C 5 Average 
40 49.99 P 4 Pass 
0 39.99 F 0 Fail 
0 0 AB  0 Absent 
 
 
8.1 Calculation of GPA (Grade Point Average): 
 
Grade point Average for a term will be computed by dividing the sum of product of grade point of each course/subjects and 
credit value assigned to each respective course by the sum of credits assigned to all the courses / subjects for the related term. 
 
GPA = 
 CG
 C  
 
8.2 Calculation of CGPA (Cumulative Grade Point Average): 
 
Cumulative Grade Point Average up to and including a term will be computed by dividing the sum of product of grade point 
of each course/subject and credit value assigned to each respective course by the sum of credits assigned to all the courses / 
subjects up to and including the related term till date. 
 
CGPA = 
 CG
 C  
      
Here: 
C = Credit value assigned to a course /subject 
G = Grade point value assigned to a student for course / subject corresp onding to the letter grade (refer table given) 
GPA = Grade point Average shall be calculated for individual term and referred to as Semester  Grade Point Average. 
If a student has failed to fulfil passing standard under any head in any subject (i.e. ‘Semest er End Examination’ and/ or 
‘aggregate’), he/ she shall be deemed to have failed in that subject.

=== page 81 ===
12 
 
 
 
9. General Examination Rules  
 
9.1.1 A student who remains absent from semester examination/s due to any reason in any Course shall be marked as 
'AB' in the result/ grade sheet/ transcript for the Course/s in which he/ she has remained absent. All such students 
will be allowed to appear at re -examination in the said Course. A student who remains absent in the re -
examination would not be able to avail any further re-examination chance in the same academic year.  
9.1.2 In order to receive the degree, diploma, certificate, the student will have to pass all the examinations (Credit/Non-
Credit) of all the years. Student should ensure that he/she has cleared his/her all dues from the respective 
departments like Admission, Accounts, Library, Hostel, etc. Also, mandatory admission documents are 
submitted. 
9.1.3 Grievance Redressal (Revaluation/Verification of answer books): In case a student is not satisfied with the result/ 
grade received by him/her in a particular Course, he/ she may follow the 'Grievance Redressal Procedure' as given 
in part I of student resource book in case he/ she desires.  
9.1.4 The fees for re-examinations and re-admission will be decided by the University from time to time.  
9.1.5 In case of any disputes/differences, decision of the University shall be final and binding on the students. If a 
student desires to institute any legal proceedings against the University, such legal proceedings shall be instituted 
only in court at Mumbai in whose jurisdiction the application is submitted by the student and not in any other 
court. 
9.1.6 Modification in crit eria/rules: On the recommendation of the Board of Studies of the School and the Board of 
Examinations, the Academic Council shall have the sole discretionary right to modify all or any of the above 
criteria at any time without prior notice. 
 
These rules would be applicable to all the students who took admission/ re admission in and after the academic year 
2026-27.

=== page 82 ===
13 
 
 
 
10. Admission Policy to D.Voc candidates to B Tech First year and Lateral admission 
 
This refers to the Diploma in Engineering program with an annual exit option as per NEP 2020. Students who exit the 
Diploma program after the second year and wish to seek admission into the first year of the B Tech program may do so, 
subject to the following guidelines: 
 
Eligibility Criteria:  
 
D.Voc candidates are eligible to apply for admission to the first year of B Tech, subject to fulfilling the following criteria: 
• Candidates must have secured a minimum CGPS of 6.5 and above, based on the first- and second-year examinations.  
• The program shall remain the same as pursued in the Diploma in Engineering.  However, candidates opting for B 
Tech Computer Science and Engineering will be enrolled in B Tech Data Science.  
• All progression candidates are eligible to apply for admission to the first year of B Tech Candidates appearing for re-
examination of the second year and fourth semesters may be granted provision admission, subject to submission of an 
undertaking, mentioning that if they fail to fulfil the eligibility criteria, their admission stands cancelled.  
• Candidates with a year back are not permitted to take admission in B Tech first year.  
• Candidates who have successfully completed the third year of Diploma are eligible for Lateral admission to the 
second year of B Tech in the open competition provided vacancy.  
 
11. Course policy / Tutorial policy 
• The course policy / tutorial policy document for a particular course/subject provides detailed information 
about the teaching plan, pedagogy, reference material and evaluation criteria. 
• At the beginning of every semester, the faculty members will share the course policy / tutorial policy for 
every course/subject. 
 
12. Teaching assistantships  
• A limited number of technical assistantships from time to time may be available for all students of M. 
Tech. 
• There will be a notice from concerned faculty inviting applications from students to assist the min 
doing a research project for a stipulated period. 
• Students will be selected by the faculty under whom they wish to work. 
 
 
 
13. Community Service 
 
In this course students are provided with an opportunity to volunteer services to Government, Non-
government agencies, Hospitals, Schools and the Community. The services will be provided for any 
consecutive three weeks during the summer vacation between Semester-II and Semester-III (for first year 
students). Emphasis is placed on development and enhancement of organizational, leadership skills and 
character of students. Students will understand critical issues facing society and explore all aspects of 
giving back to the society.  It is mandatory non-credit course.  A student must undergo and pass the 
course.

=== page 83 ===
14 
 
 
14. Course Structures and Guidelines – of all programmes 
 
MUKESH PATEL SCHOOL OF TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT AND ENGINEERING  
 
Information Technology Department  
Vision 
Department of IT will impart quality education and conduct research relevant to needs of the national and 
international community which will help to improve quality of human life. 
 
Mission 
To prepare human resource with technical and management skills to meet the contemporary Information 
Technology demands of the industry and society at large by delivering relevant curriculum, using the state of the 
art pedagogical innovations, and undertake relevant research. 
 
Programme Educational Objectives (PEO) 
 
A. Technical Growth - Graduates will be successful in modern engineering practice and entrepreneurship, 
integrate into the local and global workforce, and contribute to the economy of India. 
B. Professional Skills – Graduates will continue to acquire and demonstrate the professional skills necessary 
to be competent employees, assume leadership roles, and enjoy career success and satisfaction.  
C. Professional Attit ude and Citizenship -Graduates will become productive citizens demonstrating high 
ethical and professional standards, make sound engineering or managerial decisions, and have enthusiasm 
for the profession and professional growth. 
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
Graduates of the B Tech. in Information Technology program will have an ability to:  
1. Analyze a complex computing problem and to apply principles of computing and other relevant 
disciplines to identify solutions. 
2. Design, implement, and evaluate a computing -based solution to meet a given set of computing 
requirements in the context of the program’s discipline. 
3. Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts. 
4. Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in computing practice  based on 
legal and ethical principles.  
5. Function effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities appropriate to the program’s 
discipline.  
 
In addition to outcomes 1 through 5, graduates of the Information Technology program will also have an ability to: 
Identify and analyze user needs and to take them into account in the selection, creation, integration, evaluation, and 
administration of computing-based systems. 
In addition to outcomes 1 through 5, graduates of the Cybersecurity program will also have an ability to: 
6. Apply security principles and practices to maintain operations in the presence of risks and  
threats.

=== page 84 ===
15 
 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering 
Proposed Structure of B Tech Information Technology 
Batch - 2026-30 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Basic Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Computational Thinking for 
Problem Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Engineering Graphics and 
Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 English Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
10 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 16 12 1 21     
        
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and 
Differential Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
3 Quantum Physics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Principles of Economics and 
Management  3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Digital Logic Design 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Programming with Python 1 2 0 2 COMP   
7 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
8 Product Realization 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 16 10 1 21     
        
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Management Accounting for 
Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
2 Discrete Mathematics 2 0 1 3 COMP   
3 Data Structures and 
Algorithms  3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Data Structures and 
Algorithms Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
5 Computer Networks 3 2 0 4 COMP   
6 Object Oriented 
Programming 2 0 0 2 COMP

=== page 85 ===
16 
 
7 Object Oriented 
Programming Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
8 Computer Organization and 
Architecture 3 0 0 3 COMP   
9 Technical Communication  0 0 1 1 COMP Only ICA 
10 Transforming Ideas to 
Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
11 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
12 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 16 8 2 22     
        
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Probability and Statistics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Database Management 
Systems 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Database Management 
Systems Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
4 Operating Systems 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Foundations of Artificial 
Intelligence 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Web Technologies 1 2 0 2 COMP   
7 Introduction to Cybersecurity 2 2 0 3 COMP   
8 Data Engineering and 
Visualization 0 2 0 1 COMP   
9 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
10 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 15 16 0 23     
        
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 System Administration 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
2 Design and Analysis of 
Algorithms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Machine Learning Techniques 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Program Elective-I  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
5 Program Elective-II  3 2 0 4 ELEC   
6 Open Elective-I 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Open Elective-II 3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 18 14 0 25     
        
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Interpersonal Skills  0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
2 Software Engineering 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Human Computer Interaction 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Mobile Application 
Development 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
5 Program Elective-III  2 2 0 3 ELEC

=== page 86 ===
17 
 
6 Program Elective-IV  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
7 Open Elective-III 3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Open Elective-IV 3 0 0 3 INTD   
9 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
10 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 17 16 0 25     
        
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Cloud Computing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Embedded Systems and IoT 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Program Elective-V  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
4 Program Elective-VI  3 2 0 4 ELEC   
5 Open Elective V 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP Only ICA 
7 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 14 18 0 23     
        
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Project  - - - 10 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 0 0 0 10     
        
 
Total Credits for the 
Programme 170 
     
 Total No. of Subjects 69

=== page 87 ===
18 
 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering 
Proposed Structure of MBA Tech Information Technology 
Batch - 2026-31 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Basic Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Computational Thinking for 
Problem Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Engineering Graphics and 
Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 Principles of Management 1 0 0 1 COMP   
8 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
10 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 17 10 1 21     
        
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and 
Differential Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Quantum Physics   2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Business Communication  0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA  
4 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
5 Digital Logic Design 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Microeconomics 2 0 0 2 COMP   
7 Programming with Python 1 2 0 2 COMP   
8 Product Realization 1 2 0 2 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 15 12 1 21

=== page 88 ===
19 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Management Accounting for 
Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
2 Discrete Mathematics 2 0 1 3 COMP   
3 Data Structures and 
Algorithms  3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Data Structures and 
Algorithms Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
5 Computer Networks 3 2 0 4 COMP   
6 Object Oriented 
Programming 2 0 0 2 COMP   
7 Object Oriented 
Programming Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
8 Computer Organization and 
Architecture 3 0 0 3 COMP   
9 Technical Communication  0 0 1 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
10 Transforming Ideas to 
Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
11 Open Elective-I 3 0 0 3 INTD   
12 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
13 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 19 8 2 25     
        
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Business Statistics 3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Database Management 
Systems 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Database Management 
Systems Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
4 Operating Systems 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Web Technologies 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Foundations of Artificial 
Intelligence 2 2 0 3 COMP   
7 Introduction to Cybersecurity 2 2 0 3 COMP   
8 Data Engineering and 
Visualization 0 2 0 1 COMP   
9 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
10 Open Elective-II 3 0 0 3 INTD   
11 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 19 14 0 26     
        
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Macroeconomics 2 0 0 2 COMP   
2 System Administration 1 2 0 2 COMP Only 
ICA

=== page 89 ===
20 
 
3 Design and Analysis of 
Algorithms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 Machine Learning Techniques 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Program Elective-I  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
6 Program Elective-II  3 2 0 4 ELEC   
7 Open Elective-III 3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 17 14 0 24     
        
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course Category Remark 
1 Decision Analysis and 
Modelling 3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Software Engineering 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Human Computer Interaction 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Mobile Application 
Development 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
5 Program Elective-III  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
6 Program Elective-IV  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
7 Open Elective-III 3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Open Elective-IV 3 0 0 3 INTD   
9 Interpersonal Skills  0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
10 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
11 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 20 16 0 28     
        
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course Category Remark 
1 Embedded Systems and IoT 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Program Elective-V  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
3 Program Elective-VI  3 2 0 4 ELEC   
4 Operations Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Financial Accounting and 
Analysis 3 0 0 3 COMP   
6 Marketing Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
7 Data Visualisation for 
Business Decisions 3 0 0 3 COMP Only 
ICA  
8 Technical Internship 0 10 0 5 COMP   
9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 21 16 0 29     
        
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course Category Remark 
1 Cloud Computing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Business Analytics  3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Logistics and Supplychain 
Management 2 0 0 2 COMP   
4 Financial Management 3 0 0 3 COMP

=== page 90 ===
21 
 
5 B2B Marketing 3 0 0 3 COMP   
6 Organizational Behaviour 3 0 0 3 COMP   
7 Business Research Methods 2 0 0 2 COMP   
8 Entrepreneurship 2 0 0 2 COMP Only 
ICA 
  Total 20 2 0 21     
        
Academic Year – 2030-31, Semester - IX 
S. No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course Category Remark 
1 Management of Technology 
and Innovation 2 0 0 2 COMP   
2 Human Resource 
Management 2 0 0 2 COMP   
3 Elective- 1 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
4 Elective- 2 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
5 Elective- 3 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
6 Elective- 4 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
7 Management Internship 
Program  0 40 0 12 COMP Only 
ICA 
  Total 12 40 0 24     
        
Academic Year – 2030-31, Semester - X 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Strategic Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Sustainable Business 
Management Practices 2 0 0 2 COMP   
3 Contract, Competition and 
Consumer Laws  2 0 0 2 COMP   
4 Elective- 5 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
5 Elective- 6 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
6 Elective- 7 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
7 Elective- 8 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
8 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP   
  Total 15 10 0 20     
        
 
Total Credits for the 
Programme 239      
 Total No. of Subjects 97

=== page 91 ===
22 
 
Programme Educational Objectives (PEO) – Diploma in Information Technology 
PEO 1- Diploma graduates will demonstrate strong foundational knowledge in computer engineering and the ability to  
apply this knowledge to analyze and solve technical problems in industry or higher studies.  
PEO 2- Graduates will be able to communicate effectively, work collaboratively in teams, and contribute meaningfully to  
multidisciplinary projects. 
PEO 3- Pursue Higher Education.  
 
           Program Student Outcomes (PSO’s) – Diploma in Information Technology 
A. PSO 1- Software Development Skills: Graduates will be able to apply fundamental knowledge of 
programming languages, data structures, and software engineering to design, develop, and test software 
applications for real-world problems.  
B. PSO 2- Practical Engineering Solutions: Use modern engineering tools, techniques, and practices to 
provide efficient and innovative solutions that reflect industry standards, integrating software, hardware, 
and communication skills. 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering 
Proposed Structure of Diploma in Information Technology  
Batch - 2026-29 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
 S.No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remarks 
1 Mathematics-I 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Applied Physics-I 2 0 1 3 COMP   
3 Applied Chemistry  2 0 0 2 COMP   
4 Engineering Drawing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Computer Programming 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Communication Skills 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
7 Engineering Workshop Practice 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Applied Physics-I Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Applied Chemistry Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 12 12 2 20     
        
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
 S.No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remarks 
1 Mathematics-II 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Applied Physics-II 2 0 1 3 COMP   
3 Introduction to Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering 2 0 1 3 COMP   
4 Engineering Mechanics 2 2 1 4 COMP   
5 Introduction to Object Oriented 
Programming 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Applied Physics-II Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Introduction to Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Social and Life Skills 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 12 8 4 20

=== page 92 ===
23 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
 S.No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remarks 
1 Mathematics-III 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Data Structures 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Digital Techniques 3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 Introduction to Software 
Development 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Basic Computer Hardware and 
Troubleshooting 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
6 Basics of Multimedia and 
Animation 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
7 Computer System Architecture 2 0 0 2 COMP   
8 Community Engagement 0 0 0 0 COMP   
  Total 13 10 1 19     
        
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
 S.No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remarks 
1 Introduction to Database 
Management System 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Python Programming 
Essentials 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
3 Data Communication and 
Computer Networks 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Entrepreneurship Development 
and Startups 2 0 0 2 COMP   
5 Introduction to Operating 
Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Website Designing 2 2 0 3 COMP Only ICA 
7 Microprocessor and 
Microcontrollers 3 2 0 4 COMP   
8 Data Analysis and 
Visualization 1 2 0 2 COMP   
9 Internship 0 0 0 4 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 14 14 0 25     
        
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
 S.No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remarks 
1 Internet Security  2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Development and Operations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Capstone Project Planning and 
Execution 0 8 0 4 COMP Only ICA 
4 Management Information 
System 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Emerging Trends in 
Information Technology  2 2 1 4 COMP   
  Program Elective (Select any 
One)             
6 Artificial Intelligence and 
Machine Learning 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
7 Blockchain Technology 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
  Total 11 18 1 21

=== page 93 ===
24 
 
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
 S.No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remarks 
1 In-Plant Training  0 40 0 20 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 0 40 0 20     
        
 
Total Credits for the 
Programme 125      
 Total No. of Subjects 42

=== page 94 ===
25 
 
Cybersecurity Department  
Vision 
To be a global centre of excellence in cybersecurity education and research, nurturing future-ready, ethical 
professionals who safeguard cyberspace, champion digital equity, and defend human expression in an evolving 
technological world 
 
Mission 
• M1 (Adaptive Infrastructure & Industry Integration): Deliver a dynamically evolving cybersecurity curriculum 
through strong industry linkages and interaction with security firms, cybersecurity professionals, and government 
cybersecurity agencies, driven by innovative, hands-on pedagogical spaces.  
• M2 (Interdisciplinary Research & Digital Trust): Foster collaborative, interdisciplinary research environments in 
core as well as emerging domains to architect secure, resilient digital infrastructures.  
• M3 (Ethical Culture & Global Leadership): Cultivate a culture rooted in professional ethics, privacy, and digital 
equity, empowering students and faculty through international linkages, continuous certifications, and engagement 
with global security communities.  
. 
Program 
The Programme Educational Objectives (PEO) of the B. Tech (Computer Science and Engineering - Cybersecurity)  
program are: 
• PEO1 (Professional Mastery & Digital Defense): Graduates will establish distinguished careers as cybersecurity 
architects, engineers, or l eaders across global industries, research organizations, and governments, acting as a 
resilient line of defense for digital ecosystems.  
• PEO2 (Interdisciplinary Innovation & Lifelong Learning): Graduates will champion continuous learning, advanced 
research, and global certifications, applying interdisciplinary thinking to solve ever -changing security challenges 
and drive socio-technical innovation.  
• PEO3 (Ethical Leadership & Social Stewardship): Graduates will lead with a profound sense of legal, social, 
and ethical responsibility, actively safeguarding privacy, promoting digital equity, and enabling secure 
environments for human expression. 
Program Specific Outcomes (PSO):  
PSO1 Demonstrate an ability to analyze and mitigate emerging cyber threats by applying cybersecurity principles and  
practices. 
 
PSO2 Demonstrate an ability to recommend appropriate cybersecurity solutions considering business goals, industry  
standards and regulatory compliance requirements. 
 
           Student Outcomes (SOs) 
Graduates of the B Tech (Computer Science and Engineering - Cybersecurity) program will have the ability to: 
1. Analyze a complex computing problem and apply principles of computing and other relevant disciplines to identify 
solutions. 
2. Design, implement, and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given set of computing requirements in the 
context of the program’s discipline. 
3. Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts. 
4. Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed jud gments in computing practice based on legal and 
ethical principles. 
5. Function effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities appropriate to the program’s discipline. 
6. Apply security principles and practices to maintain operations in the presence of risks and threats. 
7. an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering 
judgment to draw conclusions. 
8. an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

=== page 95 ===
26 
 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed Structure of B Tech Computer Science and Engineering (Cybersecurity)  
Batch - 2026-30 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Basic Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Computational Thinking for 
Problem Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Engineering Graphics and 
Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 English Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
10 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 16 12 1 21     
        
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and 
Differential Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
3 Quantum Physics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Principles of Economics and 
Management  3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Web Technologies 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Programming with Python 1 2 0 2 COMP   
7 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
8 Product Realization 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 15 10 1 20     
        
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Management Accounting for 
Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
2 Discrete Mathematics 2 0 1 3 COMP   
3 Data Structures and 
Algorithms  3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Data Structures and 
Algorithms Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
5 Computer Networks 3 2 0 4 COMP   
6 Object Oriented 
Programming 2 0 0 2 COMP

=== page 96 ===
27 
 
7 Object Oriented 
Programming Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
8 Computer Architecture 2 0 0 2 COMP   
9 Technical Communication  0 0 1 1 COMP Only ICA 
10 Transforming Ideas to 
Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
11 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
12 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 15 8 2 21     
        
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Probability and Statistics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Operating Systems 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Database Management 
Systems 3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Database Management 
Systems Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
5 Design and Analysis of 
Algorithms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
6 Cybersecurity Fundamentals  2 2 0 3 COMP   
7 Cryptography 2 2 0 3 COMP   
8 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 17 14 0 24     
        
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 AI and ML for Cybersecurity 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Vulnerability Assessment and 
Penetration Testing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 System Administration 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
4 Program Elective-I  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
5 Program Elective-II  3 2 0 4 ELEC   
6 Open Elective-I 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Open Elective-II 3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 17 14 0 24     
        
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Interpersonal Skills  0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
2 Digital Forensics and Incident 
Response 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Mobile Application 
Development 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
4 Software Engineering 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Program Elective-III  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
6 Program Elective-IV  3 2 0 4 ELEC   
7 Open Elective-III 3 0 0 3 INTD

=== page 97 ===
28 
 
8 Open Elective-IV 3 0 0 3 INTD   
9 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
10 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 18 16 0 26     
        
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Human and Legal Aspects of 
Cybersecurity 2 0 0 2 COMP   
2 Cybersecurity Risk 
Management 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Application Security Testing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Program Elective-V  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
5 Program Elective-VI  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
6 Open Elective V 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP Only ICA 
8 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 15 18 0 24     
        
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Project  - - - 10 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 0 0 0 10     
        
 
Total Credits for the 
Programme 170      
 Total No. of Subjects 69

=== page 98 ===
29 
 
Computer Engineering Department  
Vision 
Play a significant role in creating Computer Engineering Graduates with sound technical and managerial skills of 
value to industry and society both at national and international level. 
 
Mission 
The Computer Engineering Department endeavors for excellence in creating, applying and imparting knowledge 
in computer engineering through comprehensive curriculum and innovative teaching -learning process. 
Provide a sound technical and managerial foundation an d multifaceted development that prepares student 
to excel in higher education, research or technical/managerial profession that can adapt to rapidly changing 
technology in computer engineering. 
Program Educational Objectives (PEO)- BTech Computer Engineering/BTech CSBS/BTech CSE-DS 
 
A. PEO 1- Be successful in their professional career exhibiting ethical attitude and good communication skills 
with exposure to agile technologies. 
B. PEO 2- Analyze, design and solve problems in their domain using computer engineering knowledge  
C. PEO 3- Pursue Higher Education. 
 
          Program Student Outcomes (PSO’s) - BTech Computer Engineering 
A. PSO 1- Application of Engineering Knowledge to Solve Complex Problems: Graduates will be able to 
apply principles of computer engineering, including software and hardware design, data structures and 
algorithms to develop solutions for complex engineering problems.  
B. PSO 2- Software Development & Design: Graduates will be able to design, develop, and deploy software 
systems that meet specific requirements using contemporary and advanced programming languages, 
frameworks, and tools mapping with software development lifecycle.. 
           Student Outcomes (SOs) 
Graduates of the B Tech. in Computer Engineering program will have an ability to: 
9. Identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, 
science, and mathematics. 
10. apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public 
health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors . 
11. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
12. Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed 
judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, 
and societal contexts. 
13. Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collabor ative and 
inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. 
14. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering 
judgment to draw conclusions. 
15. Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

=== page 99 ===
30 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed structure of B Tech Computer Engineering 
Batch - 2026-30  
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
4 Computational Thinking for Problem 
Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
9 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 16 8 2 20     
                
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Quantum Physics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Object Oriented Programming 2 0 0 2 COMP   
4 Object Oriented Programming Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
5 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Product Realization 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
7 English Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Web Development  0 2 2 3 COMP   
9 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 12 12 3 20     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Signals and Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Computer Organization and Architecture 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Data Structures and Algorithms Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
5 Principles of Economics and 
Management  3 0 0 3 COMP   
6 Probability and Statistics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
7 Discrete Mathematics 2 0 1 3 COMP   
8 Technical Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
10 Programming with Python 1 2 0 2 COMP   
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 17 8 2 23

=== page 100 ===
31 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Operating Systems 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Database Management Systems 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Database Management Systems Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
4 Complex Variables and Transforms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
6 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
7 Computer Networks 3 2 0 4 COMP   
8 Machine Learning 2 2 0 3 COMP   
9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 19 14 0 26     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Software Engineering 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Program Elective - I 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
3 Advanced Linear Algebra 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
4 Program Elective - II 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
5 Open Elective - I X X X 3 INTD   
6 Open Elective - II X X X 3 INTD   
7 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
8 Theoretical Computer Science 2 0 1 3 COMP   
9 Coursera  1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 12 12 1 25     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Transforming Ideas to Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP   
2 Compiler Design 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Artificial Intelligence 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Open Elective - III X X X 3 INTD   
5 Open Elective - IV X X X 3 INTD   
6 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
7 Program Elective - III 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
8 Program Elective - IV 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
9 Interpersonal Skills  0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
10 Coursera  2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 10 16 0 24     
 
 
 
 
 
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP   
2 Distributed Computing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Program Elective-V 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
4 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
5 Open Elective-V 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Program Elective-VI 2 2 0 3 COMP   
7 Coursera  2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 14 16 0 22

=== page 101 ===
32 
 
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Project 0 20 0 10 COMP   
  Total 0 20 0 10             
  Total Program credits = 170           
  Total no of courses in the program = 67

=== page 102 ===
33 
 
Programme Educational Objectives (PEO) - MBA Tech Computer Engineering 
A. PEO 1- Be successful in their professional career exhibiting ethical attitude and good communication skills 
with exposure to agile technologies. 
B. PEO 2- Analyze, design and solve problems in their domain using computer engineering knowledge  
C. PEO 3- Pursue Higher Education. 
          Program Student Outcomes (PSO’s) – MBA Tech Computer Engineering 
A. PSO 1- Application of Engineering Knowledge to Solve Complex Problems: Graduates will be able to 
apply principles of computer engineering, including software and hardware design, data structures and 
algorithms to develop solutions for complex engineering problems. 
B. PSO 2- Techno-Managerial Skills: Graduates will be able to demonstrate techno -managerial decision-
making skills to design and develop technology driven business solutions. 
 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed structure of MBA Tech Computer Engineering 
Batch - 2026-31  
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
4 Computational Thinking for 
Problem Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
9 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
10 Principles of Management 1 0 0 1 COMP   
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 17 8 2 21     
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Quantum Physics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Microeconomics 2 0 0 2 COMP   
5 Object Oriented Programming 2 0 0 2 COMP   
6 Object Oriented Programming Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
7 Web Development 0 2 2 3 COMP   
8 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
9 Business Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
10 Product Realization 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 14 14 2 22     
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Signals and Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Computer Organization and 
Architecture 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 0 0 3 COMP

=== page 103 ===
34 
 
4 Data Structures and Algorithms 
Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
5 Discrete Mathematics 2 0 1 3 COMP   
6 Technical Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
8 Programming with Python 1 2 0 2 COMP   
9 Management Accounting for 
Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 14 6 2 19     
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Operating Systems 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Database Management Systems 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Database Management Systems 
Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
4 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 0 1 4 COMP   
5 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
6 Computer Networks 3 2 0 4 COMP   
7 Machine Learning 2 2 0 3 COMP   
8 Business Statistics 3 0 0 3 COMP   
9 Complex Variables and Transforms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
10 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 22 12 1 29     
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Software Engineering 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Program Elective-I 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
3 Advanced Linear Algebra 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
4 Program Elective-II 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
5 Open Elective-I 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Open Elective-II 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
8 Macro Economics 2 0 0 2 COMP   
9 Theoretical Computer Science 2 0 1 3 COMP   
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 20 12 1 27     
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Transforming Ideas to Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
2 Compiler Design 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Artificial Intelligence 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Open Elective-III 3 0 0 3 INTD   
5 Open Elective-IV 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
7 Program Elective-III 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
8 Program Elective-IV 3 0 0 3 ELEC   
9 Interpersonal Skills 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
10 Decision Analysis and Modelling 3 0 0 3 COMP   
11 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 20 14 0 27

=== page 104 ===
35 
 
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Technical Internship 0 10 0 5 COMP Only ICA 
2 Distributed Computing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Program Elective-V 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
4 Program Elective-VI 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
5 Open Elective-V 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Operations Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
7 Financial Accounting and Analysis 3 0 0 3 COMP   
8 Marketing Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
9 Data Visualisation for Business 
Decisions 3 0 0 3 COMP Only ICA 
10 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 24 16 0 32     
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Business Analytics  3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Logistics and Supplychain 
Management 2 0 0 2 COMP   
3 Financial Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 B2B Marketing 3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Organizational Behaviour 3 0 0 3 COMP   
6 Business Research Methods 2 0 0 2 COMP   
7 Entrepreneurship 2 0 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 18 0 0 18     
Academic Year – 2030-31, Semester - IX 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Management of Technology and 
Innovation 2 0 0 2 COMP   
2 Human Resource Management 2 0 0 2 COMP   
3 Elective- 1 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
4 Elective- 2 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
5 Elective- 3 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
6 Elective- 4 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
7 Management Internship 
Programme 0 40 0 12 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 12 40 0 24     
Academic Year – 2030-31, Semester - X 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Strategic Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Sustainable Business Management 
Practices 2 0 0 2 COMP   
3 Contract, Competition and 
Consumer Laws  2 0 0 2 COMP   
4 Elective- 5 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
5 Elective- 6 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
6 Elective- 7 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
7 Elective- 8 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
8 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 15 10 0 20     
Total Credits for the Programme 239 
Total No. of Subjects 95

=== page 105 ===
36 
 
 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed structure of B Tech Computer Science 
Batch - 2026-30  
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Computational Thinking for Problem 
Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
9 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 16 10 1 20     
                
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Quantum Physics   2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Object Oriented Programming 2 0 0 2 COMP   
4 Object Oriented Programming Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
5 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
6 Programming with Python 1 2 0 2 COMP   
7 Product Realization 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
8 English Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Transforming Ideas to Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
10 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 13 14 1 20     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Probability and Statistics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Principles of Economics and 
Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Digital Circuits and Computer 
Architecture 3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 Discrete Mathematics 2 0 1 3 COMP   
5 Computer Networks 3 2 0 4 COMP   
6 Data Extraction and Processing  1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
7 Technical Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Data Structures and Algorithms  3 0 0 3 COMP   
9 Data Structures and Algorithms Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
10 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 18 10 2 25

=== page 106 ===
37 
 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No
. 
Course Name Lectur
e 
Practica
l 
Tutoria
l 
Credit
s 
Course 
Categor
y 
Remar
k 
1 Operating Systems 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Database Management Systems 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Artificial Intelligence and Machine 
Learning 3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 Complex Variables and Transforms 3 0 1 4 COMP   
5 Database Management Systems Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
6 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
7 Theoretical Computer Science 2 0 1 3 COMP   
8 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 19 10 2 26     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. 
No
. 
Course Name Lectur
e 
Practica
l 
Tutoria
l 
Credit
s 
Course 
Categor
y 
Remar
k 
1 Software Engineering 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Program Elective-I 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
3 Program Elective-II 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
4 Web Development  0 2 2 3 COMP   
5 Open Elective-I 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Open Elective-II 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
8 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 15 12 2 23     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. 
No
. 
Course Name Lectur
e 
Practica
l 
Tutoria
l 
Credit
s 
Course 
Categor
y 
Remar
k 
1 Compiler Design 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Design and Application of Internet of 
Things 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Open Elective-III 3 0 0 3 INTD   
4 Open Elective-IV 3 0 0 3 INTD   
5 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
6 Program Elective-III 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
7 Program Elective-IV 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
8 Interpersonal Skills 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 17 14 0 24

=== page 107 ===
38 
 
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP   
2 Distributed Computing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Program Elective-V 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
4 Program Elective-VI 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
5 Open Elective-V 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
7 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 14 16 0 22     
                
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Project 0 20 0 10 COMP   
  Total 0 20 0 10             
  Total Program credits = 170           
  Total no of courses in the program = 66

=== page 108 ===
39 
 
 
Programme Educational Objectives (PEO) – Diploma in Computer Engineering 
A. PEO 1- Diploma graduates will demonstrate strong foundational knowledge in computer engineering and 
the ability to apply this knowledge to analyze and solve technical problems in indu stry or higher studies.  
B. PEO 2- Graduates will be able to communicate effectively, work collaboratively in teams, and contribute 
meaningfully to multidisciplinary projects. 
C. PEO 3- Pursue Higher Education.  
           Program Student Outcomes (PSO’s) – Diploma in Computer Engineering 
A. PSO 1- Software Development Skills: Graduates will be able to apply fundamental knowledge of 
programming languages, data structures, and software engineering to design, develop, and test software 
applications for real-world problems.  
B. PSO 2- Practical Engineering Solutions: Use modern engineering tools, techniques, and practices to 
provide efficient and innovative solutions that reflect industry standards, integrating software, hardware, 
and communication skills. 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering 
Proposed structure of Diploma in Computer Engineering 
Batch - 2026-29  
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Mathematics-I 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Applied Physics-I 2 0 1 3 COMP   
3 Applied Chemistry  2 0 0 2 COMP   
4 Engineering Drawing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Computer Programming 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Communication Skills 1 2 0 2 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 Engineering Workshop Practice 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Applied Physics-I Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Applied Chemistry Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
  Total 12 12 2 20     
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Mathematics-II 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Applied Physics-II 2 0 1 3 COMP   
3 Introduction to Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 2 0 1 3 COMP   
4 Engineering Mechanics 2 2 1 4 COMP   
5 Introduction to Object Oriented Programming 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Applied Physics-II Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 Introduction to Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Social and Life Skills 1 0 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
  Total 12 8 4 20

=== page 109 ===
40 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Mathematics-III 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Data Structures 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Digital Techniques 3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 Java Programming 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Basic Computer Hardware and 
Troubleshooting 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
6 Basics of Multimedia and Animation 1 2 0 2 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 Computer System Architecture 2 0 0 2 COMP   
8 Community Engagement 0 0 0 0 COMP   
  Total 13 10 1 19     
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Introduction to Database Management System 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Website Designing 2 2 0 3 COMP Only 
ICA 
3 Data Communication and Computer 
Networks 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Microprocessor and Microcontrollers 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Introduction to Operating Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Entrepreneurship Development and Startups 2 0 0 2 COMP   
7 Internship 0 0 0 4 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Data Analysis and Visualization 1 2 0 2 COMP   
  Total 14 12 0 24     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Internet Security  2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Development and Operations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Capstone Project Planning and Execution 0 8 0 4 COMP Only 
ICA 
4 Management Information System 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Emerging Trends in Information Technology  2 2 1 4 COMP   
6 Program Elective (Select any One)             
  Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
  Blockchain Technology 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
  Total 13 22 1 24     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 In-Plant Training  0 40 0 20 COMP Only 
ICA 
  Total 0 40 0 20     
 
Total Program credits = 124 
Total no of courses in the program = 40

=== page 110 ===
41 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering 
Proposed Structure of B Tech Computer Science and Engineering (Data Science) 
Batch - 2026-30 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Computational Thinking for 
Problem Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Engineering Graphics and 
Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
9 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 16 10 1 20     
        
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Quantum Physics   2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
4 Product Realization 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
5 English Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
6 Transforming Ideas to 
Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
8 Management Accounting for 
Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
9 Object Oriented Programming 2 0 0 2 COMP   
10 Object Oriented Programming 
Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 14 12 1 20     
        
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Technical Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only ICA 
2 Probability and Statistics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Programming with Python 1 2 0 2 COMP   
4 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Data Structures and Algorithms 
Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
6 Website Designing and 
Development 1 2 0 2 COMP

=== page 111 ===
42 
 
7 Software Engineering 3 2 0 4 COMP   
8 Digital Circuits and Computer 
Architecture 3 2 0 4 COMP   
9 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
10 Interpersonal Skills 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 14 14 1 22     
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Database Management Systems 3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Database Management Systems 
Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
3 Design and Analysis of 
Algorithms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 Computer Networks 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Data Wrangling and 
Visualization 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Discrete Mathematics 2 0 1 3 COMP   
7 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
8 Program Elective-I 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 17 12 1 24     
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1  Artificial Intelligence and 
Machine Learning  3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Operating Systems 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Image and Video Processing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Data Analytics using 
Spreadsheet 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
5 Program Elective-II 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
6 Open Elective-I x x x 3 INTD   
7 Open Elective-II x x x 3 INTD   
8 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 11 14 0 24     
        
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Deep Learning: Fundamentals 
and Applications 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Principles of Economics and 
Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Program Elective-III 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
4 Program Elective-IV 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
5 Open Elective-III x x x 3 INTD   
6 Open Elective-IV x x x 3 INTD   
7 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
8 Big Data Analytics for Engineers 2 2 0 3 COMP   
9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 14 12 0 26

=== page 112 ===
43 
 
        
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Computer Vision 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Generative and Agentic AI 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Program Elective-V 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
4 Program Elective-VI 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
5 Open Elective-V x x x 3 INTD   
6 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP Only ICA 
7 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 12 18 0 24     
        
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. 
No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Project 0 20 0 10 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 0 20 0 10     
        
 
Total Credits for the 
Programme 170 
     
 Total No. of Subjects 67

=== page 113 ===
44 
 
Computer Science and Business Systems Department 
 
Vision: 
To be recognized for excellence in Computer Science and Business Systems education by developing competent  
professionals who integrate computing technologies with business knowledge to create innovative, sustainable,  
and socially relevant solutions. 
 
Mission: 
M1: Deliver quality education in computer science and emerging digital technologies through experiential and outcome - 
based learning. 
M2: Foster business intelligence and managerial competence by integrating business principles with technology to solve  
organizational challenges. 
M3: Strengthen industry engagement, research, innovation, and entrepreneurship through collaborative learning and real- 
world projects 
  M4: Cultivate ethical values, leadership, and lifelong learning to empower graduates to contribute responsibly to society  
and the global technology ecosystem. 
 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed structure of B Tech Computer Science and Business Systems 
Batch - 2026-30 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Computational Thinking for Problem 
Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
9 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 16 10 1 20     
                
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Quantum Physics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Object Oriented Programming 2 0 0 2 COMP   
4 Object Oriented Programming Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
5 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
6 Product Realization 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
7 English Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Transforming Ideas to Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
10 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 14 10 2 20

=== page 114 ===
45 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Theoretical Computer Science 2 0 1 3 COMP   
2 Computer Organization and 
Architecture 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Data Structures and Algorithms Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
5 Operating Systems 3 2 0 4 COMP   
6 Discrete Mathematics 2 0 1 3 COMP   
7 Technical Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
9 Programming with Python 1 2 0 2 COMP   
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 15 6 3 21     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Database Management Systems 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Database Management Systems Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
4 Compiler Design 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Machine Learning for Business Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Probability and Statistics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
7 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
8 Business Strategy 3 0 0 3 COMP   
9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 17 12 0 23     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Software Engineering 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Computer Networks 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Program Elective - I 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
4 Program Elective - II 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
5 Open Elective - I 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Open Elective - II 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
8 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 19 12 0 25     
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Managing Innovation and 
Entrepreneurship  3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Financial & Cost Accounting 3 0 1 4 COMP   
3 Interpersonal Skills 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
4 Program Elective-III 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
5 Program Elective-IV 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
6 Open Elective-III 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Open Elective-IV 3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 20 10 1 26

=== page 115 ===
46 
 
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP   
2 Marketing Management and 
Technology 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Financial Management and Technology 3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Principles of Economics and 
Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Human Resource Management and 
Technology 2 0 0 2 COMP   
6 Program Elective-V 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
7 Open Elective V 3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 19 12 0 25             
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Project       10 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 0 0 0 10             
  Total Program  credits = 170           
  Total no of courses in the program = 66

=== page 116 ===
47 
 
Applied Computing Department 
Vision 
Play a distinct role in creating intelligent community with sound technical and design thinking capabilities who will be 
the value to industry and society both at national and international level. 
 
Mission 
 
1. The department endeavors for excellence in creating, applying and imparting knowledge in students  through 
industry relevant curriculum and pedagogical innovations. 
2. Create an environment for multifaceted development of students that prepares them for development of computer 
applications that solves societal problems and meats current industry requirements.   
PEOs 
1. Be Successful in  their professional career exhibiting g ood communication, design thinking and computer 
application development skills with exposure to cutting-edge technologies. 
2. Analyse, design and solve societal and industry related problems in the domain of computer science.  
3. Making students industry ready. 
 
PSOs 
1. Software Development and Programming Skills: Apply core concepts of computer science and programming to 
design, develop, test, and maintain software applications that meet real-world needs. 
2. Industry Readiness and Employability: Demonstrate job-readiness through industry-relevant skills and 
modern tools, internships and the ability to adapt to evolving 
 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed structure of Master of Computer Applications  
Batch - 2026-28  
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Operating Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Database Management Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Computer Networks 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Java Programming 2 4 0 4 COMP   
6 Web Technologies 2 4 0 4 COMP   
7 English Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Design Thinking 2 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
  Total 15 18 0 22     
               
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Probability and Statistics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Software Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Advanced Web Technologies 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Artificial Intelligence 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Advanced Java 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Data Analysis with Python 2 2 0 3 COMP   
7 Mobile Application Development 2 2 0 3 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Technical Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Mini Project 0 4 0 2 COMP Only 
ICA

=== page 117 ===
48 
 
10 Department Elective I ( Select any one)             
  Advanced Database Management 
System 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
  Internet of Things 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
  Human Computer Interaction  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
                
  Total 16 20 1 27     
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Machine Learning 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Cloud Computing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Cyber Security  2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Microservices and Architecture 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Department Elective II (Select any one)             
  DevOps 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
  Big Data Analytics  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
  Blockchain Technology 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
6 Open Elective ( Select any one)             
  Basic Decision making with Spreadsheet 2 2 0 3 INTD   
  Algorithmic Trading 2 2 0 3 INTD   
  Introduction to Virtual Reality and 
Augmented Reality  2 2 0 3 INTD   
  Game Design 2 2 0 3 INTD   
7 Professional Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Interpersonal Skills  0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Capstone Project  0 8 0 4 COMP Only 
ICA 
  Total 11 18 0 24     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Industry Internship / Project   0 30 0 15 COMP Only 
ICA 
  Total 0 30 0 15     
 
Total Program credits = 88 
Total no of courses in the program = 28

=== page 118 ===
49 
 
Artificial Intelligence Department 
Vision 
Play a significant role in nurturing young engineering graduates with strong foundation in technical and ethical skills to 
cater to the needs of fast-growing multidisciplinary application areas of artificial intelligence and address industrial and 
societal needs both at national and international levels.   
 
Mission 
1. To focus on efforts to create a comprehensive curriculum to ensure multifaceted development of students to address 
challenges in application areas of Artificial Intelligence (AI) equipping them to become skilled AI professionals    
2. To build a strong teaching and research environment fostering strong analytical and problem -solving skills to 
prepare students to excel in higher education, research, or technical/managerial roles    
3. To promote project-based learning by providing opportunities to work on real -life challenging problems in areas 
of AI such as healthcare, education, agriculture, smart cities, infrastructure, and transportation through 
collaborative projects with industry and academia.   
Programme Educational Objectives (PEO) 
A. Technical Growth - Graduates will be successful in modern engineering practice and entrepreneu rship, 
integrate into the local and global workforce, and contribute to the economy of the state of Maharashtra 
and the nation of India.   
B. Professional Skills - Graduates will continue to acquire and demonstrate the professional skills necessary 
to be competent employees, assume leadership roles, and enjoy career success and satisfaction.    
C. Professional Attitude and Citizenship  - Graduates will become productive citizens demonstrating high 
ethical and professional standards, make sound engineering or manage rial decisions, and have enthusiasm 
for the profession and professional growth.  
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
Graduates of the B Tech in Artificial Intelligence program will have an ability to:  
 
1. An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, 
science, and mathematics. 
2. An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public 
health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors. 
3. An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
4. An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed 
judgments, which must consider th e impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and 
societal contexts. 
5. An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative 
and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. 
6. An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering 
judgment to draw conclusions.    
7. An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning str ategies.

=== page 119 ===
50 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed structure of MBA Tech Artificial Intelligence 
Batch - 2026-31 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Computational Thinking for Problem 
Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Principles of Management 1 0 0 1 COMP   
6 Engineering Graphics and Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
7 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 16 10 1 21     
                
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Intelligent Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
4 Microeconomics 2 0 0 2 COMP   
5 Transforming Ideas to Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
6 Programming with Python 1 2 0 2 COMP   
7 Product Realization  1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
8 Business Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
10 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 14 12 1 19     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Discrete Mathematics 2 0 1 3 COMP   
2 Business Statistics 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Fundamentals of Operating Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Signal and Image Processing 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Object Oriented Programming 2 0 0 2 COMP   
6 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 0 0 3 COMP   
7 Program Elective - I 1 2 0 2 ELEC Only ICA 
8 Object Oriented Programming Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
9 Data Structures and Algorithms Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP

=== page 120 ===
51 
 
10 Technical Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only ICA 
11 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
12 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 17 10 2 24     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Optimization Methods 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Machine Learning 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Database Management Systems 3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Computer Architecture 2 0 0 2 COMP   
6 Program Elective - II 1 2 0 2 ELEC Only ICA 
7 Open Elective - I 3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Database Management Systems Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
9 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
10 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
11 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 21 12 0 27     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Deep Learning  2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Computer Networks 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Natural Language Processing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Program Elective - III 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
5 Program Elective - IV 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
6 Macroeconomics 2 0 0 2 COMP   
7 Open Elective - II  3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Responsible and Ethical AI 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
10 Interpersonal Skills 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 17 16 0 25     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Advanced Topics in Machine Learning 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Computer Vision for AI 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Program Elective - V 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
4 Decision Analysis and Modelling 3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Open Elective - III 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Open Elective - IV 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Cloud Computing for AI 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Agile Product Development with 
DevOps 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA

=== page 121 ===
52 
 
9 Program Elective - VI 1 2 0 2 ELEC Only ICA 
10 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
11 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 20 16 0 28     
                
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Program Elective - VII 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
2 Program Elective - VIII 1 2 0 2 ELEC Only ICA 
3 Operations Management  3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Financial Accounting and Analysis 3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Marketing Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
6 Data Visualisation for Business Decisions 3 0 0 3 COMP   
7 Open Elective - V 3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Technical Internship 0 10 0 5 COMP Only ICA 
9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 20 14 0 27     
                
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Generative AI 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Applied Time Series Analysis 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Business Analytics  3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Logistics and Supply chain Management 2 0 0 2 COMP   
5 Financial Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
6 B2B Marketing 3 0 0 3 COMP   
7 Organizational Behaviour 3 0 0 3 COMP   
8 Business Research Methods 2 0 0 2 COMP   
9 Entrepreneurship 2 0 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 22 4 0 24     
                
Academic Year – 2030-31, Semester - IX 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Management of Technology and 
Innovation 2 0 0 2 COMP   
2 Human Resource Management 2 0 0 2 COMP   
3 Elective- 1 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
4 Elective- 2 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
5 Elective- 3 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
6 Elective- 4 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
7 Management Internship Program 0 40 0 12 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 12 40 0 24     
                
Academic Year – 2030-31, Semester - X 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Strategic Management 3 0 0 3 COMP

=== page 122 ===
53 
 
2 Sustainable Business Management 
Practices 2 0 0 2 COMP   
3 Contract, Competition and Consumer 
Laws  2 0 0 2 COMP   
4 Elective- 5 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
5 Elective- 6 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
6 Elective- 7 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
7 Elective- 8 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
8 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 15 10 0 20     
  Total Credits for the Programme                          239     
  Total No. of courses                                          99

=== page 123 ===
54 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed structure of B Tech Artificial Intelligence  
Batch - 2026-30 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Computational Thinking for Problem 
Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 15 10 1 20     
                
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Intelligent Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
4 Principles of Economics and 
Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Programming with Python 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Product Realization  1 2 0 2 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 English Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
10 Transforming Ideas to Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 15 12 1 20     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Discrete Mathematics 2 0 1 3 COMP

=== page 124 ===
55 
 
2 Probability and Statistics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Fundamentals of Operating Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Signal and Image Processing 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Computer Architecture 2 0 0 2 COMP   
6 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 0 0 3 COMP   
7 Data Structures and Algorithms Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
8 Program Elective - I 1 2 0 2 ELEC Only 
ICA 
9 Technical Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
10 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 16 10 2 23     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Optimization Methods 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Machine Learning 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Database Management Systems 3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Object Oriented Programming 2 0 0 2 COMP   
6 Open Elective - I 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Database Management Systems Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
8 Object Oriented Programming Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
9 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
10 Program Elective - II 1 2 0 2 ELEC Only 
ICA 
11 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 19 14 0 26     
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Deep Learning  2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Computer Networks 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Natural Language Processing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Management Accounting for 
Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
5 Program Elective - III 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
6 Program Elective - IV 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
7 Open Elective - II 3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Responsible and Ethical AI 1 0 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
10 Interpersonal Skills 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 17 16 0 25

=== page 125 ===
56 
 
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Advanced Topics in Machine 
Learning 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Computer Vision for AI 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Program Elective - V 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
4 Open Elective - III 3 0 0 3 INTD   
5 Open Elective - IV 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Agile Product Development with 
DevOps 1 2 0 2 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 Cloud Computing for AI 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Program Elective - VI 1 2 0 2 ELEC Only 
ICA 
9 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
10 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 17 16 0 25     
                
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Applied Time Series Analysis 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Generative AI 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Program Elective - VII 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
4 Open Elective - V 3 0 0 3 INTD   
5 Program Elective - VIII 1 2 0 2 ELEC Only 
ICA 
6 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 12 18 0 21     
                
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1  Project - - - 10 COMP Only 
ICA 
  Total       10     
  Total Credits for the Programme                             170     
  Total No. of Subjects       71

=== page 126 ===
57 
 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Program structure of B Tech Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning  
Batch - 2026-30 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Computational Thinking for 
Problem Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 15 10 1 20     
                
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Intelligent Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
4 Principles of Economics and 
Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Programming with Python 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Product Realization  1 2 0 2 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 English Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
10 Transforming Ideas to Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 15 12 1 20

=== page 127 ===
58 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Discrete Mathematics 2 0 1 3 COMP   
2 Operating Systems 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Data Wrangling 1 4 0 3 COMP   
4 Probability and Statistics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Data Visualization and 
Interpretation 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
6 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 0 0 3 COMP   
7 Data Structures and Algorithms Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
8 Technical Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
10 Program Elective - I 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 15 14 2 24     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Image and Video Processing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Machine Learning 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Database Management Systems 3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Database Management Systems Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
5 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
6 Object Oriented Programming 2 0 0 2 COMP   
7 Object Oriented Programming Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
8 Program Elective - II 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
9 Open Elective - I  2 2 0 3 INTD   
10 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
11 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 19 16 0 27     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Computer Networks 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Deep Learning 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Responsible and Ethical AI 1 0 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
4 Management Accounting for 
Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
5 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
6 Program Elective - III 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
7 Quantum Machine Learning 2 2 0 3 COMP   
8 Open Elective - II 3 0 0 3 INTD

=== page 128 ===
59 
 
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 16 12 0 22     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Natural Language Processing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Agile Product Development with 
DevOps 1 2 0 2 COMP Only 
ICA 
3 Big Data Analytics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Program Elective - IV 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
5 Program Elective - V 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
6 Open Elective - III  2 2 0 3 INTD   
7 Open Elective - IV 2 2 0 3 INTD   
8 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Interpersonal Skills 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
10 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 15 20 0 25     
                
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Applied Time Series Analysis 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Advanced Topics in Machine 
Learning 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Program Elective - VI 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
4 Program Elective - VII 1 2 0 2 ELEC   
5 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP Only 
ICA 
6 Open Elective - V 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 13 18 0 22     
                
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1  Project - - - 10 COMP Only 
ICA 
  Total 0 0 0 10     
                
  Total Credits for the Programme                             170     
  Total No. of Subjects       69

=== page 129 ===
60 
 
 
Data Science Department  
 
Vision 
 
Play a distinct role in providing excellence in Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Management 
fundamentals and concepts using scientific methods, processes, algorithms and systems to extract knowledge and insights, 
thereby creating human resources of value to industry and society both at national and international level.  
 
Mission 
 
1. To prepare human resource in the areas of technical and management domains with strong analytical aptitude and 
problem-solving skills to meet the contemporary Business Analytics demands of the industry and society by delivering 
relevant curriculum, using the state -of-the-art pedagogical innovations developed by strong industry linkages, and 
undertake relevant research and consultancy. 
 
2. Ensure multifaceted development of students, faculty and staff in computational sciences to Work on real life 
challenging problems through continuous introspection and inputs. 
 
3. Set up the international linkages with Institutes/Industry of repute. 
 
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs) 
 
The Program Educational Objectives of B. Tech Data Science, MBA Tech Data Science, M. Tech Data Science (Business 
Analytics) and M. Tech Artificial Intelligence Programs are to produce graduates and post graduates with the following 
objectives: 
 
A. Establish themselves as Data Scientists, Data Engineers, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Engineers and 
Subject Matter Experts in various private and public sectors that are involved in the design, creation, maintenance and 
use of industrial and organization data and help nation building 
 
B. Solve real world problems by applying knowledge ethically that will benefit organizations and society at large.  
 
C. Adapt to changing trends in Data Science, Business Analytics, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning and 
become lifelong learners. 
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
1. Identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, 
and mathematics. 
2. Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, 
safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors.  
3. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
4. Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, 
which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal 
contexts. 
5. Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and 
inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. 
6. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment 
to draw conclusions. 
7. Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies .

=== page 130 ===
61 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed structure of MBA Tech Data Science 
Batch - 2026-31 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Business Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
4 Computational Thinking for Problem 
Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Principles of Management 1 0 0 1 COMP   
7 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
9 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
10 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 17 10 1 21     
               
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Programming with Python 1 2 0 2 COMP   
3 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
4 Quantum Physics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Microeconomics 2 0 0 2 COMP   
6 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
8 Technical Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Product Realization 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
10 Data Wrangling Fundamentals and 
Practices 0 4 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 13 14 2 21     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Discrete Mathematics 2 0 1 3 COMP   
2 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Object Oriented Programming 2 0 0 2 COMP   
4 Managing Uncertainty  2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Introduction to Data and Signal 
Analysis 1 2 0 2 COMP

=== page 131 ===
62 
 
6 Management Accounting for 
Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
7 Open Elective - I  3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Program Elective - I 1 2 0 2 ELEC Only ICA 
9 Data Structures and Algorithms Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
10 Object Oriented Programming Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
11 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
12 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 17 10 1 23     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Database Management Systems 3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Computer Systems and Networking 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Agile-driven Software Testing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Stochastic processes and Applications 1 2 0 2 COMP   
5 Statistical Structures in Data and 
Inference 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Program Elective - II 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
7 Database Management Systems Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
8 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
9 Open Elective - II 3 0 0 3 INTD   
10 Data Handling and Visualization 2 0 0 2 COMP   
11 Macroeconomics 2 0 0 2 COMP   
12 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 21 14 0 28     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Multi-modal Data Processing and 
Learning 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Business Statistics 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Fundamentals of Embedded Systems 
and IoT 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Foundations of Machine Learning 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Program Elective - III 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
6 Program Elective - IV 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
7 Open Elective - III 3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 20 14 0 27     
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Applications of Machine Learning 1 2 0 2 COMP   
2 Applied Artificial Intelligence and 
Agentic System 2 2 0 3 COMP

=== page 132 ===
63 
 
3 Decision Analysis and Modelling 3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Program Elective - V 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
5 Open Elective - IV 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Open Elective - V 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Interpersonal Skills  0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Transforming Ideas to Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
10 Generative AI Systems and 
Applications 2 2 0 3 COMP   
11 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 18 16 0 26     
        
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Neural Networks and Deep Learning 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Speech and Natural Language 
Processing 1 2 0 2 COMP   
3 Operations Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Financial Accounting and Analysis 3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Marketing Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
6 Data Visualisation for Business 
Decisions 3 0 0 3 COMP Only ICA 
7 Program Elective - VI 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
8 Technical Internship 0 10 0 5 COMP Only ICA 
9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 20 16 0 28     
        
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Big Data Analytics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Business Analytics  3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Logistics and Supply chain 
Management 2 0 0 2 COMP   
4 Financial Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 B2B Marketing 3 0 0 3 COMP   
6 Organizational Behaviour 3 0 0 3 COMP   
7 Business Research Methods 2 0 0 2 COMP   
8 Entrepreneurship 2 0 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 20 2 0 21     
        
Academic Year – 2030-31, Semester - IX 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Management of Technology and 
Innovation 2 0 0 2 COMP   
2 Human Resource Management 2 0 0 2 COMP   
3 Elective- 1 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
4 Elective- 2 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
5 Elective- 3 2 0 0 2 ELEC

=== page 133 ===
64 
 
6 Elective- 4 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
7 Management Internship Programme 0 40 0 12 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 12 40 0 24     
        
Academic Year – 2030-31, Semester - X 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Strategic Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Sustainable Business Management 
Practices 2 0 0 2 COMP   
3 Contract, Competition and Consumer 
Laws  2 0 0 2 COMP   
4 Elective- 5 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
5 Elective- 6 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
6 Elective- 7 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
7 Elective- 8 2 0 0 2 ELEC   
8 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 15 10 0 20     
  Total Credits for the Programme     239     
  Total No. of Subjects     98

=== page 134 ===
65 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed structure of B Tech Data Science 
Batch - 2026-30 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Computational Thinking for Problem 
Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 English Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 16 10 1 20     
                
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Programming with Python 1 2 0 2 COMP   
3 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
4 Principles of Economics and 
Management  3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Quantum Physics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Product Realization 1 2 0 2 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 Data Wrangling Fundamentals and 
Practices 0 4 0 2 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Technical Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
10 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 14 14 2 22

=== page 135 ===
66 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Discrete Mathematics 2 0 1 3 COMP   
2 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Managing Uncertainty  2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Management Accounting for 
Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
5 Introduction to Data and Signal 
Analysis 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Object Oriented Programming 2 0 0 2 COMP   
7 Data Handling and Visualization 2 0 0 2 COMP   
8 Object Oriented Programming Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
9 Data Structures and Algorithms Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
10 Program Elective - I 1 2 0 2 ELEC Only 
ICA 
11 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
12 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 16 10 1 22     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Optimization Methods   2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Statistical Structures in Data and 
Inference 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Fundamentals of Embedded Systems 
and IoT 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Stochastic processes and Applications 1 2 0 2 COMP   
5 Program Elective - II 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
6 Computer Systems and Networking 2 2 0 3 COMP   
7 Database Management Systems 3 0 0 3 COMP   
8 Database Management Systems Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP   
9 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
10 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 16 16 0 24     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Applied Artificial Intelligence and 
Agentic System 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Foundations of Machine Learning 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Program Elective - III 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
4 Program Elective - IV 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
5 Open Elective - I  3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Open Elective - II  3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP

=== page 136 ===
67 
 
8 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 18 12 0 24     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Applications of Machine Learning 1 2 0 2 COMP   
2 Multi-modal Data Processing and 
Learning 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Generative AI Systems and 
Applications 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Neural Networks and Deep Learning 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Program Elective - V 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
6 Open Elective - III 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Open Elective - IV 3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Interpersonal Skills  0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
10 Transforming Ideas to Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
11 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 17 18 0 26     
                
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Agile-driven Software Testing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Speech and Natural Language 
Processing 1 2 0 2 COMP   
3 Big Data Analytics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Program Elective - VI 3 2 0 4 ELEC   
5 Open Elective - V 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only 
ICA 
  Total 13 18 0 22     
                
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1  Project - - - 10 COMP Only 
ICA 
  Total       10     
  Total Credits for the Programme       170     
  Total No. of Subjects       70

=== page 137 ===
68 
 
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs) for M Tech Data Science (Business Analytics) & M Tech 
Artificial Intelligence  
 
PEO 1: To develop graduates capable of leveraging data science and AI technologies to address industry 
challenges, optimize processes, and drive innovation across sectors like corporate, government, and start-
ups. 
 
PEO 2: To equip graduates with skills to design and implement data -driven business strategies, using 
advanced analytics and AI to create impactful, scalable solutions for complex industry problems. 
 
PEO 3: To prepare graduates to lead and collaborate in diverse, cross-functional teams, fostering effective 
communication and synergy in dynamic, global industrial settings. 
 
PEO 4: To instill adaptability and a culture of continuous le arning, enabling graduates to stay ahead in 
rapidly evolving industrial landscapes driven by AI and data science. 
 
PEO 5:  To ensure graduates uphold ethical practices and social responsibility, making informed 
decisions for the fair and sustainable application of data and AI technologies in industry. 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering 
Proposed structure of M Tech Data Science (Business Analytics)  
Batch - 2026-28 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Applied Mathematics for Data Science 3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Programming for Analytics  3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Applied Machine Learning 3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Data Engineering  3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Professional Elective - I (Choose any one)              
  Generative Adversarial Networks 3 0 0 3 ELEC   
  Finance Analytics 3 0 0 3 ELEC   
6 Professional Skills  0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Lab - 1: Applied Machine Learning Lab  0 4 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
8 Lab - 2: Data Science Lab  0 4 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 15 10 0 20     
                
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Advanced Artificial Intelligence & Deep 
Learning 3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Generative AI with Large Language Models  3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Natural Language Processing 2 0 0 2 COMP   
4 Career Development and Professional Skills  0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
5 Lab - 3: Building Generative AI based 
Applications  0 4 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
6 Lab - 4: Large Language Models Lab  0 4 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
7 Technical Seminar - I 0 4 0 2 COMP Only ICA

=== page 138 ===
69 
 
8 Professional Elective - II (Choose any one)             
  Ethics in Data Science  3 0 0 3 ELEC   
  Computer Vision  3 0 0 3 ELEC   
9 Professional Elective - III (Choose any one)             
  Application Architecture & Deployment  3 0 0 3 ELEC   
  Security of Data Science  3 0 0 3 ELEC   
  Total 14 14 0 21     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Capstone Project  3 0 0 12 COMP Only ICA 
2 Technical Seminar - II 0 24 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
3 Machine Learning Operations 0 4 0 3 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 3 28 0 17     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Industrial Internship with Project  0 32 0 16 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 0 32 0 16     
  Total Credits for the Programme       74     
  Total No. of Subjects       21

=== page 139 ===
70 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering 
Proposed structure of M Tech Artificial Intelligence 
Batch - 2026-28 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Applied Statistics and Time Series 
Forecasting 3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Advanced Data Analysis and Programming 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Data Engineering 3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Artificial Intelligence with Machine 
Learning 3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Natural Language Processing  2 0 0 2 COMP   
6 Professional Elective - I (Choose any one)             
  Application Architecture & Deployment  3 0 0 3 ELEC   
  Financial Analytics using time series and 
LSTM 3 0 0 3 ELEC   
7 Professional Skills  0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Lab – 1: Visual Analytics Lab 0 4 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
9 Lab – 2: Artificial Intelligence Machine 
Learning Lab 0 4 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 17 10 0 22     
                
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Artificial Intelligence - Deep Learning & 
Generative AI 3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Distributed Data Processing  3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Security Essentials in Applied AI 4 0 0 4 COMP   
4 Career Development and Professional 
Skills  0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
5 Lab – 3: Artificial Intelligence Applications 
Lab 0 4 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
6 Lab – 4: Artificial Intelligence Deep 
Learning & Edge Lab 0 4 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
7 Technical Seminar - I 0 4 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
8 Professional Elective - II (Choose any one)             
  Edge Computing 3 0 0 3 ELEC   
  Reinforcement Learning 3 0 0 3 ELEC   
9 Professional Elective - III (Choose any one)             
  Generative AI 3 0 0 3 ELEC   
  Computer Vision 3 0 0 3 ELEC   
  Large Language Models 3 0 0 3 ELEC   
  Total 16 14 0 23

=== page 140 ===
71 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Capstone Project  3 0 0 12 COMP Only ICA 
2 Technical Seminar - II 0 24 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
3 Machine Learning Operations 0 4 0 3 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 3 28 0 17     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Industrial Internship with Project  0 32 0 16 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 0 32 0 16     
  Total Credits for the Programme       78     
  Total No. of Subjects       22

=== page 141 ===
72 
 
Programme Educational Objectives (PEO) – Diploma in Computer Science and Engineering 
A. PEO 1- Diploma graduates will demonstrate strong foundational knowledge in computer engineering and the ability 
to apply this knowledge to analyze and solve technical problems in industry or higher studies.  
B. PEO 2 - Graduates will be able to communicate effectivel y, work collaboratively in teams, and contribute 
meaningfully to multidisciplinary projects. 
C. PEO 3- Pursue Higher Education.  
Program Student Outcomes (PSO’s) – Diploma in Computer Science and Engineering  
PSO 1 - Software Development Skills: Graduates will be able to apply fundamental knowledge of programming 
languages, data structures, and software engineering to design, develop, and test software applications for real -world 
problems.  
PSO 2- Practical Engineering Solutions: Use modern engineering tools, techniques, and practices to provide efficient 
and innovative solutions that reflect industry standards, integrating software, hardware, and communication skills.  
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering 
Proposed structure of Diploma in Computer Science and Engineering 
Batch - 2026-29 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Mathematics-I 3 0 1 4 COMP -- 
2 Applied Physics-I 2 0 1 3 COMP -- 
3 Applied Chemistry 2 0 0 2 COMP -- 
4 Engineering Drawing 2 2 0 3 COMP -- 
5 Computer Programming 2 2 0 3 COMP -- 
6 Communication Skills 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
7 Engineering Workshop Practice 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Applied Physics-I Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Applied Chemistry Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 12 12 2 20     
               
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Mathematics-II 3 0 1 4 COMP -- 
2 Applied Physics-II 2 0 1 3 COMP -- 
3 Introduction to Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering 2 0 1 3 COMP - 
4 Engineering Mechanics 2 2 1 4 COMP -- 
5 Introduction to Object Oriented 
Programming 2 2 0 3 COMP -- 
6 Applied Physics-II Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Introduction to Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Social and Life Skills 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 12 8 4 20

=== page 142 ===
73 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Mathematics-III 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Data Structures 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Digital Techniques 3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 Java Programming 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Basic Computer Hardware and 
Troubleshooting 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
6 Introduction to Statistical Learning 
for Data Science 2 2 0 3 COMP   
7 Computer System Architecture 2 0 0 2 COMP   
8 Community Engagement 0 0 0 0 COMP   
  Total 14 10 1 20     
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Introduction to Database 
Management System 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Website Designing 2 2 0 3 COMP Only ICA 
3 Data Communication and 
Computer Networks 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Introduction to Random Processes 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Introduction to Operating Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Entrepreneurship Development 
and Startups 2 0 0 2 COMP   
7 Data Analysis and Visualization 1 2 0 2 COMP   
8 Internship 0 0 0 4 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 13 12 0 23     
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Internet Security  2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Development and Operations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Capstone Project Planning and 
Execution 0 8 0 4 COMP Only ICA 
4 Management Information System 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Emerging Trends in Information 
Technology  2 2 1 4 COMP   
6 Program Elective (Select any One)             
 Artificial Intelligence and Machine 
Learning 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
 Blockchain Technology 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
  Total 11 18 1 21   
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 In-Plant Training  0 40 0 20 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 0 40 0 20     
  Total Credits for the Programme       124     
  Total No of Courses       40

=== page 143 ===
74 
 
Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Department 
Vision 
To build a strong teaching and research environment that caters to the needs of fast growing telecommunication domain. 
 
Mission 
1. Provide internationally recognized leaders in Electronics and Telecommunication, through a 
continuously improving educational program incorporating applied engineering aspects. 
2. Create knowledge of fundamental principles and innovative technologies through research in the area 
of Electronics and Telecommunication and hence teach the students the necessary research skills which 
satisfy the needs of growing economy. 
 
Program Specific Outcomes (PSO’s) 
               PSO1: Apply elemental principles to conceptualize, design, and implement innovative solutions for communication, 
 networking, and signal processing applications. 
       PSO2: Exhibit expertise and adaptability in developing efficient and pioneering technologies in Embedded Systems,  
  Artificial Intelligence, and Next-Generation Communication systems. 
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs) 
                 The PEOs are designed with input from all the program constituents and they describe the expected accomplishments          
                 of graduates during the first several years following graduation:  
 
                 The objectives of the B. Tech, Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Programme are to produce graduates           
                 who will- 
                 PEO1: Technical Growth - Graduates will be successful in modern engineering practice and entrepreneurship,            
                 integrate into the local and global workforce, and contribute to the economy of the state of Maharashtra and the             
                 nation of India.  
                 (The first objective is to prepare graduates for success in engineering, entrepreneurship, and economic contribution   
                 locally and globally) 
 
                 PEO2: Professional Skills - Graduates will continue to acquire and demonstrate the professional skills necessary to      
                 be competent employees, assume leadership roles, and enjoy career success and satisfaction.  
                 (The second objective is to develop graduates' professional skills for competence, leadership, and career success) 
 
                 PEO3: Professional Attitude and Citizenship - Graduates will become productive citizens demonstrating high ethical               
                 and professional standards, make sound engineering or managerial decisions, and have enthusiasm for the profession     
                 and professional growth.  
     (The third objective is designed to foster ethical, professional, and enthusiastic graduates committed t o sound            
      decision-making and growth) 
 
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
Graduates of the B. Tech. in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering program will have an ability to:  
1. Identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying  principles of engineering, 
science, and mathematics. 
2. Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public 
health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors . 
3. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
4. Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed 
judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, 
environmental, and societal contexts. 
5. Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and 
inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. 
6. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentat ion, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering 
judgment to draw conclusions. 
7. Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

=== page 144 ===
75 
 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed structure of B Tech Electronics & Telecommunication Engineering Program 
Batch - 2026-30  
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 3 0 0 3 COMP   
4 Computational Thinking for Problem 
Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 English Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC  Only 
ICA 
                
  Total 15 10 1 20     
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations   3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Quantum Physics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
4 Principles of Economics & 
management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Programming with Python 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Product Realization 1 2 0 2 COMP Only 
ICA 
7 Transforming Ideas to Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
9 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only 
ICA 
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC  Only 
ICA 
  Total 15 10 1 20

=== page 145 ===
76 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Complex Variables and Transforms 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Analog Circuits Analysis and Design 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Digital Logic Design 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Circuit and Network Theory 3 0 0 3 COMP   
5 Signals and Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
7 Technical Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
8 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC  Only 
ICA 
  Total 18 8 2 24     
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Lectur
e 
Practica
l 
Tutoria
l 
Credit
s 
Course 
Categor
y 
Remar
k 
1 Probability and Statistics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Control System Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Communication Theory and Systems 3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 
Embedded Processors and Real-Time 
Systems 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Introduction to VLSI Technology 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
7 Program Elective – I x x x 2 ELEC   
8 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC  Only 
ICA 
  Total 15 12 0 23     
 
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Discrete Time Signal Processing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Discrete Mathematics 2 0 1 3 COMP   
3 Computational Methods for Engineers 1 2 0 2 COMP   
4 Computer Communication and 
Networks 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Program Elective – II x x x 3 ELEC   
6 Open Elective - I x x x 3 INTD   
7 Open Elective - II x x x 3 INTD   
8 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC  Only 
ICA 
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC  Only 
ICA 
  Total 10 10 1 25

=== page 146 ===
77 
 
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Wireless Communication Technology 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 
Electromagnetics and Radiating 
Systems 3 0 1 4 COMP   
3 Interpersonal Skills 0 2 0 1 COMP Only 
ICA 
4 Program Elective – III x x x 3 ELEC   
5 Program Elective – IV x x x 4 ELEC   
6 Open Elective - III x x x 3 INTD   
7 Open Elective - IV x x x 3 INTD   
8 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC  Only 
ICA 
                
  Total 6 8 1 24     
 
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Digital Voice and Broadband 
Communication 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Fiber Optic Communication and 
Networks 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Program Elective – V x x x 4 ELEC   
4 Program Elective – VI x x x 4 ELEC   
5 Open Elective - V x x x 3 INTD   
6 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP Only 
ICA 
  Total 5 14 0 23     
 
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Project  0 0 0 10  COMP Only ICA 
                
                
                
                
                
  Total 0 0 0 10     
 
Total Credits for the Programme       169 
Total No. of Subjects        63

=== page 147 ===
78 
 
Civil Engineering Department  
Vision 
Create competent Civil Engineering professionals and employable individuals with sound technical and management 
credentials to take part in state-of-the-art infrastructural development with global ensign for the benefit of the society. 
Mission 
1. Provide quality education in conformity with advancements in technology and management.  
2. Encourage relevant research, development and entrepreneurship qualities in students, faculty, and staff through 
teamwork.  
3. Develop strong industry institute linkages to ascertain and resolve the socio-economic problems of infrastructure with 
due consideration to safety and economy in ethical manner. 
 
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs) 
 
A. Technical Growth - Graduates will be successful in modern engineering practice and entrepreneurship, integrate into 
the local and global workforce, and contribute to the economy of the state of Maharashtra and the nation of India.  
 
B. Professional Skills - Graduates will continue to acquire and demonstrate the professional skills necessary to be 
competent employees, assume leadership roles, and enjoy career success and satisf action.  
 
C. Professional Attitude and Citizenship - Graduates will become productive citizens demonstrating high ethical and 
professional standards, make sound engineering or managerial decisions, and have enthusiasm for the profession and 
professional growth. 
 
 
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
Graduates of the B Tech. in Civil Engineering program will have the ability to:  
1. Identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and 
mathematics. 
2. Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, 
and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors.  
3. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
4. Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which 
must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts.  
5. Function effectively on a team whose memb ers together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive 
environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. 
6. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw 
conclusions. 
7. Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

=== page 148 ===
79 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed structure of B Tech Civil Engineering  
Batch - 2026-30 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Environmental Science 1 0 1 2 COMP   
3 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
4 Chemistry 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Construction Technology 2 0 0 2 COMP   
6 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Engineering Workshop 0 4 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
8 Transforming Ideas to Innovation  0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 13 8 3 19     
               
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Physics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
4 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Engineering Mechanics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Geology 2 2 0 3 COMP   
7 Engineering Graphics and Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
8 English Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 15 14 0 21     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Complex Variables and 
Transforms 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Strength of Materials 2 2 1 4 COMP   
3 Surveying 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Transportation Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Building Design and Drawing  1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Technical Communication  0 0 1 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Principles of Economics and 
Management 3 0 0 3 COMP   
8 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 14 8 3 21

=== page 149 ===
80 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Probability and Statistics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Concrete Technology 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Soil Mechanics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Theory of Structures 3 0 1 4 COMP   
6 Management Accounting for 
Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
7 Program Elective – I   3 0 0 3 ELEC   
8 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 19 10 1 25     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Design of Reinforced Concrete 
Structures  2 0 2 4 COMP   
2 Hydraulics and Fluid Machinery 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Foundation Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Program Elective – II 3 0 0 3 ELEC   
5 Open Elective – I  3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Open Elective – II 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
8 Python for Civil Engineering  0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 16 12 2 24     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Water and Wastewater 
Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Sustainable Buildings 2 0 0 2 COMP   
3 Program Elective – III 3 0 0 3 ELEC   
4 Program Elective – IV 3 0 0 3 ELEC   
5 Open Elective – III 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Open Elective – IV 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
8 Interpersonal Skills 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Design of Steel Structures 3 0 0 3 COMP   
10 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 21 8 0 25

=== page 150 ===
81 
 
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Construction Project Management 
and Finance 3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Quantity Surveying, Estimation 
and Valuation 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Program Elective – V  3 0 0 3 ELEC   
4 Program Elective – VI  3 0 0 3 ELEC   
5 Open Elective – V 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP Only ICA 
7 Building Information Modelling 0 4 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
8 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 17 16 0 25     
        
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1  Project - - - 10 COMP Only ICA 
  Total       10     
 
 
Total Credits for the Programme 170 
Total no of courses  65

=== page 151 ===
82 
 
Mechanical Engineering Department 
Vision 
To be centre  of excellence in Mechanical Engineering for education and research to create competent Mechanical 
Engineering graduates who can be employable in the industries and be part of innovation, research, problem solving and 
entrepreneurship to help mankind in particular and society in general. 
Mission 
1. To impart quality education in the field of Mechanical Engineering to the students.  
2. To provide state of the art facilities to the students to enable them to learn, understand and apply 
fundamentals of Mechanical Engineering in solving engineering problems. 
3. Developing relevant curriculum of studies, which will cater to the needs of industry and society.  
4. Promotion of team culture amongst students, faculties and staff to create conducive environment for better 
interaction with industries and collaborative research and development activities. 
 
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs) 
A. Technical Growth - Graduates will be successful in modern engineering practice and entrepreneurship, 
integrate into the local and global workfo rce, and contribute to the economy of the state of Maharashtra and 
the nation of India.  
 
B. Professional Skills - Graduates will continue to acquire and demonstrate the professional skills necessary 
to be competent employees, assume leadership roles, and enjoy career success and satisfaction.  
 
C. Professional Attitude and Citizenship - Graduates will become productive citizens demonstrating high 
ethical and professional standards, make sound engineering or managerial decisions, and have enthusiasm for 
the profession and professional growth. 
 
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
1. Identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering proble ms by applying principles of engineering, 
science, and mathematics. 
2. Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public 
health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and ec onomic factors. 
3. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
4. Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed 
judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, 
environmental, and societal contexts. 
5. Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and 
inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. 
6. Develop and conduct appropriate ex perimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering 
judgment to draw conclusions. 
7. Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

=== page 152 ===
83 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed structure of B Tech Mechanical Engineering  
Batch - 2026-30 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Computational Thinking for 
Problem Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
4 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering  
2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 English Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
6 Engineering Graphics and Design 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
7 Essential Electronics Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 13  10 2 19     
               
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations                                                                     3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Chemistry 3 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Physics 2 2 0 4 COMP   
4 3D Printing and Engineering 
Workshop 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
5 Environmental Science 1 0 1 2 COMP Only ICA 
6 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
8 Program Elective - I  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 14 10 1 19     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Complex Variables and Transforms 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Engineering Mechanics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Materials Engineering  2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Manufacturing Processes-I 2 0 0 2 COMP   
5 Machine Drawing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Principles of Economics and 
Management  3 0 0 3 COMP   
7 Program Elective - II  3 0 0 3 ELEC   
8 Machine Shop-I  0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Technical Communication  0 0 1 1 COMP Only ICA 
10 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
11 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 19 8 2 25

=== page 153 ===
84 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Probability and Statistics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Engineering Thermodynamics 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Classical Physics  2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Manufacturing Processes-II 2 0 0 2 COMP   
5 Strength of Materials 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Management Accounting for 
Engineers  2 0 0 2 COMP   
7 Program Elective - III  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
8 Machine Shop-II 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Design Experience I 0 2 0 1 COMP   
10 Transforming Ideas to Innovation  0 2 0 1     
11 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 16 14 0 23     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Kinematics and Dynamics of 
Machines 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 CAD/CAM/CIM 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Applied Thermodynamics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 Program Elective - IV  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
5 Open Elective - I 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Open Elective - II 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
8 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 20 12 0 24     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Fluid Mechanics and Machinery  3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Additive Manufacturing  2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Design of Machine Elements 3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 Program Elective - V  3 0 0 3 ELEC   
5 Open Elective - III 3 0 0 3 INTD   
6 Open Elective - IV 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Interpersonal Skills 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 18 12 0 24

=== page 154 ===
85 
 
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Finite Element Analysis 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Mechanical Measurements and 
Metrology  2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Heat Transfer  3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 Industrial Applications of HVAC   1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
5 Program Elective - VI  2 0 0 3 ELEC   
6 Open Elective - V 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP Only ICA 
8 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 16 18 0 26     
        
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1  Project - - - 10 COMP Only ICA 
  Total       10     
  Total Credits for Programme 170     
  Total no of courses 65

=== page 155 ===
86 
 
 
Programme Educational Objectives (PEO) – Diploma in Mechanical Engineering 
PEO 1- Diploma graduates will demonstrate strong foundational knowledge in computer engineering and the ability to 
apply this knowledge to analyze and solve technical problems in industry or higher studies.  
A. PEO 2- Graduates will be able to communicate effectively, work collaboratively in teams, and contribute 
meaningfully to multidisciplinary projects. 
B. PEO 3- Pursue Higher Education.  
           Program Student Outcomes (PSO’s) – Diploma in Mechanical Engineering 
A. PSO 1- Software Development Skills: Graduates will be able to apply fundamental knowledge of 
programming languages, data structures, and software engineering to design, develop , and test software 
applications for real-world problems.  
B. PSO 2- Practical Engineering Solutions: Use modern engineering tools, techniques, and practices to 
provide efficient and innovative solutions that reflect industry standards, integrating software, 
hardware, and communication skills. 
 Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed Structure of Diploma in Mechanical Engineering  
Batch - 2026-29 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Mathematics-I 3 0 1 4 COMP -- 
2 Applied Physics-I 2 0 1 3 COMP -- 
3 Applied Chemistry  2 0 0 2 COMP -- 
4 Engineering Drawing 2 2 0 3 COMP -- 
5 Computer Programming 2 2 0 3 COMP -- 
6 Communication Skills 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
7 Engineering Workshop Practice 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Applied Physics-I Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Applied Chemistry Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 12 12 2 20     
                
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Mathematics-II 3 0 1 4 COMP -- 
2 Applied Physics-II 2 0 1 3 COMP -- 
3 Introduction to Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering 2 0 1 3 COMP -- 
4 Engineering Mechanics 2 2 1 4 COMP -- 
5 Introduction to Object Oriented 
Programming 2 2 0 3 COMP -- 
6 Applied Physics-II Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Introduction to Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering Lab 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
8 Social and Life Skills 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
                
  Total 12 8 4 20

=== page 156 ===
87 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28 
Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Mathematics-III 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Elements of Mechanical Engineering 3 0 0 3 COMP   
3 Basic Thermodynamics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 Production Drawing 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Solid Mechanics 3 2 0 4 COMP   
6 Materials Engineering and Metallurgy 3 2 0 4 COMP   
7 Community Engagement 0 0 0 0 COMP   
  Total 17 8 1 22     
                
Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Basic Manufacturing Processes 3 0 0 3 COMP   
2 Engineering Metrology and 
Measurement 3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Theory of Machines 3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic 
Machinery 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Entrepreneurship Development and 
Startups  2 0 0 2 COMP   
6 Manufacturing Workshop 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Internship - - - 4 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 14 8 0 22     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29 
Semester - V 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Machine Design 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Manufacturing Management  3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Refrigeration and Air Conditioning 3 2 0 4 COMP   
4 Capstone Project Planning and 
Execution  0 8 0 4 COMP Only ICA 
5 Program Elective (Select any one)             
  Emerging Trends in Mechanical 
Engineering  2 2 0 3 ELEC   
  Computer Aided Design and 
Manufacturing 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
  Total 11 16 0 19     
                
Semester - VI 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 In-Plant Training  0 40 0 20 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 0 40 0 20     
  Total Credits for Programme 123     
  Total no of courses 37

=== page 157 ===
88 
 
 Mechatronics Engineering Department  
Vision 
The aspiration is to be one of the leading programs in academia offering a well-balanced mix of analytical, practical and 
commercial aspects of the best practices in engineering smart and intelligent industrial systems. 
Mission 
Emphasize the industrial aspects of mechatronic systems analysis and design in the curriculum.  
Focus on the electronics engineering, mechanical engineering and software engineering components with cutting-edge 
technology. 
Infuse industrial insights into the program via industrial partnerships and internships.  
 
Program Educational Objectives (PEO) 
The graduates of the program will 
A. Possess the essential professional mechanical, electronic and software skills for mechatronic and robotics 
system design. 
B. Engage and succeed in the professional career or higher education practicing teamwork, ethics, proactive 
involvement and effective communication. 
C. Demonstrate the importance of lifelong learning by skills upgradation via professional development workshops 
and technical certifications. 
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
The students in the program will be able to demonstrate 
1. An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying pr inciples of 
engineering, science, and mathematics. 
2. An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of 
public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and econo mic factors. 
3. An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
4. An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed 
judgments. 
5. An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative 
and inclusive environment, and establish goals. 
6. An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering 
judgment to draw conclusions. 
7. An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

=== page 158 ===
89 
 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering  
Proposed Structure of B Tech Mechatronics Engineering  
Batch - 2026-30 
 
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - I 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Calculus 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Physics  3 2 0 4 COMP   
3 Elements of Biology 2 0 1 3 COMP   
4 Computational Thinking 
for Problem Solving 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Engineering Graphics and 
Design 1 2 0 2 COMP   
6 Engineering Ethics 1 0 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Constitution of India 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
8 Indian Knowledge System 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
9 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 16 6 2 19     
                
Academic Year – 2026-27, Semester - II 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Linear Algebra and 
Differential Equations 3 2 0 4 COMP   
2 Transforming Ideas to 
Innovation 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
3 Quantum Physics   2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 English Communication 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
5 Basic Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Essential Mechatronics 
Practices 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
7 Principles of Economics 
and Management  3 0 0 3 COMP   
8 Product Realization 1 2 0 2 COMP Only ICA 
9 Environmental Studies 1 0 0 0 COMP Only ICA 
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 13 14 0 19

=== page 159 ===
90 
 
 
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - III 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Complex Variables and 
Transforms 3 0 1 4 COMP   
2 Mechanics and 
Mechanisms 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Management Accounting 
for Engineers 2 0 0 2 COMP   
4 Data Structures and 
Algorithms 3 2 0 4 COMP   
5 Digital Logic Design 2 2 0 3 COMP   
6 Classical Control Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
7 Thermodynamics 2 0 1 3 COMP   
8 Technical Communication 0 0 1 1 COMP Only ICA 
9 Community Service 0 0 0 0 COMP   
10 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 17 8 3 24     
                
Academic Year – 2027-28, Semester - IV 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Probability and Statistics 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Dynamic Systems 
Modeling  2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Microprocessor Systems 
and Interfacing  2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Strength of Solids 2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Signals and Image 
Processing 3 2 0 4 COMP   
6 Electronic Systems 2 2 0 3 COMP   
7 Materials and Energy 
Chemistry 2 2 0 3 COMP   
8 Design Experience I  0 2 0 1 COMP   
9 Interpersonal Skills 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
10 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 17 18 0 26

=== page 160 ===
91 
 
 
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - V 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Industrial Drives 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 PLCs and Instrumentation 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Manufacturing Processes 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Program Elective – I 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
5 Program Elective – II 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
6 Open Elective -I  3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Open Elective -II 3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Design Experience II 0 4 0 2 COMP   
 9 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 18 14 0 25     
                
Academic Year – 2028-29, Semester - VI 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Project Methodology 0 2 0 1 COMP Only ICA 
2 Supervisory Control and 
Data Acquisition 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Fluid Power Automation 2 2 0 3 COMP   
4 Artificial Intelligence and 
Machine Learning  2 2 0 3 COMP   
5 Program Elective – III 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
6 Program Elective – IV 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
7 Open Elective -III 3 0 0 3 INTD   
8 Open Elective -IV  3 0 0 3 INTD   
9 Design Experience III 0 4 0 2 COMP   
10 Coursera 2 0 0 2 COUC Only ICA 
  Total 18 16 0 26

=== page 161 ===
92 
 
 
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VII 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Mechatronic Systems 
Design 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Robotic Systems Design 2 2 0 3 COMP   
3 Capstone Project 0 10 0 5 COMP Only ICA 
4 Program Elective – V 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
5 Program Elective – VI 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
6 Open Elective -V 3 0 0 3 INTD   
7 Coursera 1 0 0 1 COUC  
  Total 12 18 0 21     
        
Academic Year – 2029-30, Semester - VIII 
S. 
No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1  Project - - - 10 COMP Only ICA 
  Total 0 0 0 10     
 Total Credits for the Programme 170   
 Total no of courses  69

=== page 162 ===
93 
 
Technology Management Department 
Vision 
“Nurturing Young Minds to help them transform into Leaders who can leverage appropriate Technology for Business 
goals.” 
Mission 
1. To nurture students into multi-skilled professionals capable of solving real-world problems holistically through a 
balanced integration of Technology and Management education, innovative thinking, and value-based business 
practices. 
2. To provide substantial exposure to industry and corporate work culture through twin internships in Technical and 
Management domains, guided by a blend of academic and industry-experienced faculty. 
Program Objectives of MBA Tech 
1. The programme aims to develop professionals with technical skills and expertise in applying technology to the 
business world. 
2. Students will learn to recognize technology as a key factor for enterprise success and manage its implementation 
across the organization’s value chain. 
3. They will gain the ability to utilize emerging technologies in sectors like finance, marketing, and operations. 
4. Graduates are prepared for middle management and executive roles, using technology to enhance organizational 
effectiveness and competitiveness. 
5. The programme boosts career development, offering opportunities for senior management roles or entrepreneurship 
in technology and innovation. 
6. Students can also work as consultants, advising traditional business managers on technology management. 
 
Programme Educational Objectives 
PEO-1 Serves as a leader and role model for ethical, professional, and social behavior. 
PEO-2 Understands the societal impact of managerial and technical decisions. 
PEO-3 Analyzes issues from various perspectives, asks insightful questions, and assimilates information effectively. 
PEO-4 Works well in multi-functional teams and communicates effectively in group discussions, presentations, and 
written communication. 
PEO-5 Integrates multiple technologies to generate creative solutions and develop effective strategies for continuous 
improvement. 
       PEO-6 Inspires a vision, sets clear direction, and aligns customer needs with corporate goals. 
 
PROGRAM LEARNING GOALS 
The students should have  
PLO 1:  An understanding of global practices impacting organizations.  
PLO 2:  Critical thinking skills   
PLO 3: Understanding Business Domains and Integration with Technology  
PLO 4: Effective communication skills 
PLO 5:  An understanding of ethical business models

=== page 163 ===
94 
 
 
 
Program Structure of Ph.D. (Engineering) (coursework) / Ph.D. (Technology Management) (coursework) / 
Ph.D. (Applied Mathematics) (coursework) 
Batch 2026-27 
Academic Year - 2026-27 
Semester - I 
 Sr. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Research Methodology 4 0 0 4 COMP   
2 Research and Publication 
Ethics 2 0 0 2 COMP   
                
  Total 6 0 0 6     
        
Semester - II 
 Sr. No. Course Name Lecture Practical Tutorial Credits Course 
Category Remark 
1 Statistical Methods for 
Analysis 2 2 0 3 COMP   
2 Domain Specific Course 2 2 0 3 ELEC   
3 Integrated Humanities* 3 0 0 3 COMP   
  Total 7 4 0 6     
*Integrated Humanities” is applicable to the Research Scholars admitted under the Humanities and Social Sciences 
specialization in lieu of “Statistical Methods for Analysis. 
         
 Total Program credits 12      
 Total no of courses  5      
 
Note – Please refer to the shared University-approved Ph.D. Guidelines for the specific details.

=== page 164 ===
95 
 
15. Introduction of AI and Emerging Technologies Credits through Coursera for B Tech and MBA Tech 
Students of MPSTME 
 
In alignment with NMIMS University's vision of nurturing future -ready professionals and technology leaders, 
Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering (MPSTME) proposes the introduction of a 
mandatory AI and Emerging Technologies credit requirement through Coursera for all B Tech and MBA Tech 
students. 
 
The initiative is intended to enhance students' ability to apply Artificial I ntelligence (AI) and Emerging 
Technologies within their respective disciplines and professional practice with additional 10 credits.  
 
Successful completion of the prescribed credits shall be mandatory for the award of the degree.   
 
The list of specializations curated are:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The list of courses under each specialization from academic year 2026-27 along with the credits are given below: 
 
1. AI for Cybersecurity applicable for B Tech, MBA Tech and BTI all programs except B Tech – Civil, EXTC, 
Mechanical and Mechatronics 
 
B Tech and MBA Tech Batch admitted in AY 2026-27 
 
Sr. No. Academic  
Year Semester Name of the Course Credit 
1.  2026-27 I Google AI Essentials Specialization 1 
2.  2026-27 II Ethics and Responsible Practices in GenAI 1 
3.  2027-28 III Foundations of Cybersecurity 1 
4.  2027-28 IV Introduction to Cybersecurity Essentials  2 
5.  2028-29 V Introduction to AI for Cybersecurity 1 
6.  2028-29 VI Advanced Malware and Network Anomaly 
Detection 2 
7.  2029-30 VII Securing AI and Advanced Topics 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of specializations of Coursera 
Sr. No. Specialization 
1.  AI for Cybersecurity  
2.  Computing with AI  
3.  AI-Driven Software Development  
4.  Intelligent Data Analytics  
5.  Cloud Infrastructure  
6.  Emerging Technologies for Civil Engineering 
7.  Emerging Technologies for Electronics & Telecommunication Engineering  
8.  Emerging Technologies for Mechanical Engineering 
9.  Emerging Technologies for Mechatronics Engineering

=== page 165 ===
96 
 
  
2. Computing with AI applicable for B Tech, MBA Tech and BTI all programs except B Tech – Civil, EXTC, 
Mechanical and Mechatronics) 
 
B Tech and MBA Tech Batch admitted in AY 2026-27 
 
Sr. No. Academic Year Semester Name of the Course Credit 
1.  2026-27 I Google AI Essentials Specialization 1 
2.  2026-27 II Ethics and Responsible Practices in GenAI 1 
3.  2027-28 III Introduction to Artificial Intelligence  1 
4.  2027-28 IV Real-World Edge Computing 2 
5.  2028-29 V Agent Foundations and Prompt Engineering 1 
6.  2028-29 VI RAG Systems & Agentic Workflows with 
Pinecone and LangGraph 2 
7.  2029-30 VII Advance Multi -Agent Systems & Production 
AI with LangSmith 2 
 
 
3. AI-Driven Software Development applicable for B Tech, MBA Tech and BTI all programs except B Tech – 
Civil, EXTC, Mechanical and Mechatronics) 
 
B Tech and MBA Tech Batch admitted in AY 2026-27 
 
Sr. No. Academic Year Semester Name of the Course Credit 
1.  2026-27 I Google AI Essentials Specialization 1 
2.  2026-27 II Ethics and Responsible Practices in GenAI 1 
3.  2027-28 III Logic for Computer Science 1 
4.  2027-28 IV Prompt Engineering for ChatGPT 2 
5.  2028-29 V Generative AI: Elevate your Software 
Development Career 1 
6.  2028-29 VI AI Receptive Software Development 2 
7.  2029-30 VII Mastering Claude AI: Prompting, APIs, RAG, 
and MCP Specialization 2

=== page 166 ===
97 
 
4. Intelligent Data Analytics applicable for B Tech, MBA Tech and BTI all programs except B Tech – Civil, EXTC, 
Mechanical and Mechatronics) 
 
B Tech and MBA Tech Batch admitted in AY 2026-27 
 
Sr. No. Academic Year Semester Name of the Course Credit 
1.  2026-27 I Google AI Essentials Specialization 1 
2.  2026-27 II Ethics and Responsible Practices in GenAI 1 
3.  2027-28 III Tools for Data Science 1 
4.  2027-28 IV Python for AI and Data Science Development 2 
5.  2028-29 V Python project for Data Science /Statistics for 
Data Science with Python 1 
6.  2028-29 VI  Database and SQL for Data Science with 
Python 2 
7.  2029-30 VII AI for Data Analyst 2 
 
 
5. Cloud Infrastructure applicable for B Tech, MBA Tech and BTI all programs except B Tech – Civil, EXTC, 
Mechanical and Mechatronics) 
 
B Tech and MBA Tech Batch admitted in AY 2026-27 
 
Sr. No. Academic Year Semester Name of the Course Credit 
1.  2026-27 I Google AI Essentials Specialization 1 
2.  2026-27 II Ethics and Responsible Practices in GenAI 1 
3.  2027-28 III Data Management and Storage in the Cloud 1 
4.  2027-28 IV Essentials with Azure Fundamentals 2 
5.  2028-29 V AWS Cloud Technical Essentials  2 
6.  2028-29 VI Architecting Solutions on AWS  2 
7.  2029-30 VII Building Data Lakes on AWS 1

=== page 167 ===
98 
 
 
6. Emerging Technologies for Civil Engineering applicable for B Tech Civil Engineering 
 
B Tech Batch admitted in AY 2026-27 
 
Sr. No. Academic Year Semester Name of the Course Credit 
1.  2026-27 I Google AI Essentials Specialization 1 
2.  2026-27 II Ethics and Responsible Practices in GenAI 1 
3.  2027-28 III Drones for Environmental Science 1 
4.  2027-28 IV Machine Learning Applications in Civil 
Engineering 2 
5.  2028-29 V Virtual and Augmented Reality in 
Construction 1 
6.  2028-29 VI Understanding VR, AR, and MR in 
Construction 2 
 
 
7. Emerging Technologies for Electronics & Telecommunication Engineering applicable for B Tech Electronics & 
Telecommunication Engineering 
 
B Tech Batch admitted in AY 2026-27 
 
Sr. No. Academic Year Semester Name of the Course Credit 
1.  2026-27 I Google AI Essentials Specialization 1 
2.  2026-27 II Ethics and Responsible Practices in GenAI 1 
3.  2027-28 III Introduction to Embedded Machine Learning 2 
4.  2027-28 IV Getting Started with Machine Learning at the 
Edge on Arm 1 
5.  2028-29 V ARMv8 Architecture Fundamentals  2 
6.  2028-29 V Cortex-M Software Development  1 
7.  2028-29 VI Advanced ARMv8-M Features  1

=== page 168 ===
99 
 
 
 
8. Emerging Technologies for Mechanical Engineering applicable for B Tech and BTI Mechanical Engineering 
 
B Tech Batch admitted in AY 2026-27 
 
Sr. No. Academic Year Semester Name of the Course Credit 
1.  2026-27 I Google AI Essentials Specialization 1 
2.  2026-27 II Ethics and Responsible Practices in GenAI 1 
3.  2027-28 III Cybersecurity in Manufacturing  2 
4.  2027-28 IV AI for Design and Optimization 1 
5.  2028-29 V Factory Automation: Shaping the Future of 
Manufacturing 2 
6.  2028-29 VI Generative AI Automation Tools and 
Applications 1 
 
 
9. Emerging Technologies for Mechatronics Engineering applicable for B Tech Mechatronics Engineering 
 
B Tech Batch admitted in AY 2026-27 
 
Sr. No. Academic Year Semester Name of the Course Credit 
1.  2026-27 I Google AI Essentials Specialization 1 
2.  2026-27 II Ethics and Responsible Practices in GenAI 1 
3.  2027-28 III Artificial Intelligence - Industrial Control, 
Systems Security 1 
4.  2027-28 IV Artificial Intelligence for Robotics 2 
5.  2028-29 V AI for Autonomous Vehicles and Robotics     1 
6.  2028-29 V Drones for Environmental Sciences 1 
7.  2028-29 VI AI for Project Managers and Scrum Masters 2

=== page 169 ===
16. Approved Academic Calendar of all programs
SVKM'sNMIMS
Academic CalendarfortheAcademicYear:2026-2027
School Name:Mukesh Patel School of TechnologyManagement &Engineering,Campus: Mumbai, Shirpur
School of Technology Management& Engineering.Campus:Navi Mumbai, Indore,Chandigarh, Hyderabad
Program/sName/sinFull:Diploma,BTech,MBATech
Diploma,BTech,MBATechIyear
StartDate  End Date
OddSemester/TermI
Orientation/InductionProgram-Diploma  July10,2026  July16,2026
Orientation/InductionProgram-BTech/MBATech  July11,2026  July17,2026
CommencementofTerm-Diploma  July17,2026  November5,2026
CommencementofTerm-BTech/MBATech  July18,2026  November5,2026
MidTermTestI  August17,2026  August22,2026
MidTermTest-OnlyforManagementsubjectsasper  September7,2026  September12,2026
teaching scheme
MidTermTestII  October5,2026  October10,2026
TermEndExam  November16,2026  December3,2026
TEELabExam  December5,2026  December10,2026
Re-exam  January28,2027  February 8, 2027
DiwaliVacation  November6,2026  November12,2026
Even Semester/TermIl
CommencementofTerm  January2,2027  April23,2027
Mid TermTest1  February 10, 2027  February16,2027
MidTermTest-OnlyforManagementsubjects asper  March1,2027  March6,2027
teachingscheme
MidTermTest Il  March15,2027  March20,2027
TEELab Exam  April 24,2027  April28,2027
Term End Exam  April30,2027  May20,2027
Re-exam  June28,2027  July8,2027
Winter Vacation  December 26, 2026  January2027
Commencementof nextAcademicyear (AY2027-28)  July 12,2027
DeanMPSTME
"DatesaresubjecttochangeifrequiredPleasereconfirmthedatesbeforebookinganytickets.
100

=== page 170 ===
SVKM'sNMIMS
AcademicCalendarfortheAcademicYear:2026-2027
School Name: Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management &Engineering, Campus:Mumbai, Shirpur
School of Technology Management & Engineering,Campus: Navi Mumbai, Indore,Chandigarh,Hyderabad
Program/sName/s inFull:Ph.D. (Engineering),Ph.D.(TechnologyManagement),
Ph,D (Applied Mathematics)
Ph.D (Course Work)
Start Date  End Date
OddSemester/TermI
Orientation/InductionProgram  July 18, 2026  July 18, 2026
CommencementofTerm  July 18,2026  November25,2026
MidTermTestI  September 12,2026  September 19, 2026
Mid TermTestII  October24,2026  October31,2026
TermEndExam  December3,2026  December24,2026
Re-exam  January9,2027  January16,2027
Diwali Vacation  November6,2026  November122026
EvenSemester/TermII
CommencementofTerm  January4,2027  May 5,2027
Mid TermTestI  February 20, 2027  February 27, 2027
MidTermTestII  April 10,2027  April 17, 2027
Term End Exam  May 15,2027  May 29,2027
Re-exam  June 19,2027  June26,2027
Winter Vacation  December26,2026  January1,2027
DeanMPSTME
*Datesare subject to change if required.Please reconfirm the dates before booking anytickets.
101

=== page 171 ===
17.  LIST OF HOLIDAYS FOR THE YEAR 2026
List of Holidays for theyear2026-Mumbai Campus
No.  DATE  DAY  OCCASION
01-Jan-26  Thursday  New Year
26-Jan-26  Monday  RepublicDay
3.  15-Feb-26  Sunday  Mahashivratri
4.  03-Mar-26  Tuesday  Holi
19-Mar-26  Thursday  Gudhi Padwa
6.  21-Mar-26  Saturday  Ramzan-eid
03-April-26  Friday  Good Friday
8.  01-May-26  Friday  MaharashtraDay
9.  28-May-26  Thursday  Bakri Eid
10.  15-Aug-26  Saturday  IndependenceDay
05-Sep-26  Saturday  GopalKala
12.  14-Sept-26  Monday  GaneshChaturthi
13.  25-Sept-26  Friday  AnantChaturdashi
14.  02-Oct-26  Friday  Gandhi Jayanti
15.  20-0ct-26  Tuesday  Dushera
16.  08-Nov-26  Sunday  Diwali (Laxmipujan)
17.  09-Nov-26  Monday  Diwali
18.  10-Nov-26  Tuesday  Diwali (Balipratipada)
19.  11-Nov-26  Wednesday  Diwali (Bhaubeei)
20.  06-Dec-26  Sunday  Dr.Babasaheb
AmbedkarMahaparinirvanDin
21.  25-Dec-26  Friday  Christmas
Classes/Lectures will be conducted,if required (except on the National Holidays i.e. January 26, August
15,May01&October02)
If State Government revises thedateofthe above-mentioned holiday,the University will update
accordingly.
If State Government declares holidayfor anyotherreason, thesame will be adjusted against one of the
abovementionedHolidays
102

=== page 172 ===
103 
 
 
 
18. People you should know 
 
School Administration  
 
Name Designation 
Dr. Koteswararao Anne Dean 
Dr. Sudipto Sarkar Director  
Dr. Archana Bhise Associate Dean (Research and Development) 
Dr. Vaishali Kulkarni Associate Dean (Academic and Faculty Development) 
Ms. Anjali Barmukh Joint Registrar 
Ms. Gauri Pedgulkar Assistant Registrar (Academics) 
 
Head of Departments 
Dr. Ajay Phirke  HOD, BSH  
Dr. Ashwini Rao  HOD, IT  
Dr. Vaishali Kulkarni HOD, Artificial Intelligence 
Dr. Dhirendra Mishra HOD, Computer Engineering  
Dr. Geetha Iyer  HOD, Technology Management  
Dr. Sudipto Sarkar  HOD, Mechatronics  
Dr. Ashish Deshmukh HOD, Mechanical 
Dr. Avinash More HOD, EXTC 
Dr. Meenal Mategaonkar HOD, Civil 
Dr. Siba Panda HOD, Data Science 
Dr. Pintu Shah HOD, Cybersecurity 
Dr. Shubha Puthran HOD, Computer Science and Business System 
Dr. Pravin Shrinath HOD, Applied Computing 
 
Library 
Dr. Ravikumar Bellary Dy. Librarian Ravikumar.Bellary@nmims.edu  
Counsellor 
Ms. Ketaki Gokhale Counsellor ketaki.gokhale@nmims.edu  
Finance and Accounts 
Ms. Preeti Mandvikar Accountant Preeti.Mandvikar@nmims.edu  
Examinations 
Ms. Rupali Patkar Assistant Registrar (Examinations) Rupali.patkar@nmims.edu  
Placement 
Ms. Aparna Mahesh Jt. Director (Placement) Aparna.Mahesh@nmims.edu  
Purchase and Store 
Ms. Yogita Masal Coordinator Yogita.Masal@nmims.edu  
Ms. Vrunda Patil Coordinator Vrunda.Patil@nmims.edu  
IT, Computer and Web Management 
Mr. Sameer Borekar IT Engineer Sameer.Borekar@nmims.edu  
Maintenance 
Mr. Sachin Mhatre Maintenance and Administration Officer  Sachin.Mhatre@nmims.edu  
Mr. Srinath Pillai Admin Coordinator  Srinath.Pillai@nmims.edu