=== page 1 ===
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SVKM’S Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS) 
(Declared as Deemed to be University under Section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956) 
 
 
 
 
 
FACULTY HANDBOOK-2021

=== page 2 ===
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preamble 
 
 
 
University has a goal t o continuously guide and dev elop faculty to deliver outstanding 
performance on a consistent basis. Faculty Assessment process is a critical tool to ensure highest 
standards of faculty performance as that has a direct bearing on student performance. Hence to 
support the faculty members regards to their Career Development, providing continuous training 
& learning avenues, Assurance of Learning, building research culture, etc. University Faculty 
Handbook gives insight to the faculty members with regards to the Academic structure and 
various policies of the University across Schools. It will help imbibe the NMIMS culture and 
understand university expectations.

=== page 3 ===
3 
 
 
 
NMIMS VISION & MISSION 
 
NMIMS is steadily translating its vision into reality through innovations, student 
accomplishments, faculty scholarship and integration of industry and society needs with its 
academic programs across all schools to fulfill the needs of human resources globally. The strategy 
hinges on its core belief that all programs must enhance the employabilit y of the students through 
an integrated and inter-disciplinary approach. NMIMS has launched several pioneering initiatives 
and innovative programs that are informed by its philosophy of bringing integrated perspectives 
into play. It believes in breaking th e boundaries of a discipline to ensure that our students are 
most sought after by industry.  
 
Vision 2030 
 
Globally admired academic and research university of excellence, best in India, among best in 
Asia and yearning to be the best in the world distingui shed by innovations, accomplishment of its 
students, scholarship of its faculty, alignment with industry and community needs and 
contribution to the transformation of the Indian Higher Education.  
 
NMIMS recognition will be as an institution that promotes intellectual excitement, merit, 
diversity, inclusiveness, transparency and graduate employability at the global level. 
 
 
Mission  
 
Emerge as a centre of excellence best in class in India and Asia and yearning to be the best in the 
world 2030.

=== page 4 ===
4 
Index 
 
 PAGE No. 
Introduction  1 
            Vision Mission Statement of NMIMS 2 
NMIMS Anthem 3 
1. Faculty Positions & Designations                                 5 
2. Faculty engagement norms 5 
3. Teaching norms 6 
4. Categorisation of Schools 7 
5. Terms of Appointment 7 
6. Mandatory Doctoral Degree 7 
7. Direct Recruitment 7-8 
8. Confirmation of Services 8-9 
9. Faculty Development-Research, Publication & Training 9 
10. Research Promotion Policy 9-10 
11. Career Advancement  10-11 
12. Career Advancement Scheme 11-15 
13. Grievance Redressal Mechanism 15 
14. Consultancy & MDP 15 
15. Performance Evaluation 16-17 
16. Code of Professional Ethics 17-19 
Duties of Adjunct Faculty –Annexure I 20-22 
Foreign Travel Policy-Annexure II 23-37 
Rules for Consulting at NMIMS –Annexure III 38-41 
Calculation of Research Score-Annexure IV 42 
Application for Research & Patent Incentive –Annexure V 43-44 
Application for Research Proposal –Annexure VI 45

=== page 5 ===
5 
 
SVKM’S Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS) 
(Declared as Deemed-to-be University under Section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956) 
1. Faculty Positions 
 
Faculty positions together with their qualifications and experience will be in line with the 
following norms prescribed by the statutory bodies. 
 
Positions/Designations of faculty members: 
 
a) Senior Professor  
b) Professor  
c) Associate Professor  
d) Assistant Professor   
e) Adjunct Faculty 
f) Librarian 
 
The qualifications and experience required for these positions are provided in point 7 
which covers Direct Recruitment. 
 
Adjunct Faculty :  Procedure, terms and conditions of appointment along with the duties 
and responsibilities are given in Annexure – I. 
 
2. Faculty engagement - Norms  
 
At the end of each academic year, each faculty  member is required to submit to the Dean 
the work plan for the subsequent academic year.  This should include plan for teaching, 
research & publications and students’ development activities.  This plan will have to be 
finalized by the faculty with the Dean  along with the Head of the 
Department/Chairperson.  At the end of each  semester/ trimester, Dean will review with 
the faculty the progress on the Annual Work /Goal Plan.  At the end of the academic year, 
achievement on the Goal Plan will become a part of his / her self -appraisal.  This will be 
considered in the annual performance appraisal of the faculty. 
 
Working Days & Timings :  Every faculty member is expected to be on the campus for 
minimum 40 hours with presence of at least five hours per day.  University follows “6 days 
working a week” pattern. It is expected that each facu lty will record his/her attendance in 
the manner prescribed by the University from time to time.  Faculty membe rs will be 
entitled for 8 weeks vacation, which will be declared by the university from time to time.  
  
Obligations of Faculty Members:   If required for exigencies of work, faculty memb ers are 
required to attend office  even if it is  a Sunday / any holiday.   Such work will amount to 
change of weekly off except when faculty has worked during vacation with prior approval , 
as per rules. In such case , faculty member will be entitled to compensatory off s in the ratio 
1:3 days worked, which they can avail during the Academic Year as per University rules. 
 
A faculty member is expected to participate in administrative, co -curricular, extra -
curricular activities and such other activities assigned to them by the Dean / Director/ Pro-
Vice Chancellor / Vice Chancellor as part of their duty.

=== page 6 ===
6 
 
3. Teaching Norms: No. of Teaching Hours per Week* 
                           
Designation 
SBM-
Mumbai   
PDSE & FBM 
and SBM 
(Other 
Campuses)        
Technology 
Management 
Other Schools 
Professor   8 8 10 14* 
Associate Professor 8 10 10 14* 
Assistant Professor 8 12 12 16* 
* Remission of two hours to faculty members of other schools who have one or more Ph.D.      
students re gistered under him/her either under University or any other outside       
University. The maximum remission in the teaching load for the faculty in no case will be  
   more than 2 hours per week.  
 
Associate Dean/Director of the Programme/Centre/Course  will be entitled to 3 hours per 
week AND HOD/Chairperson of the Programme/Course/Department/Specialization will 
be entitled to 2 hours per week remission in teaching workload  provided there is no 
monetization for the additional responsibility handled.  
 
If ad ditional allowances are paid to the Faculty member for holding any of the 
administrative post like HOD, Chairperson, Director, Associate Dean and Faculty In-charge 
then faculty member has to take full teaching workload as mentioned as per their 
designation and will not be entitled for any remission.  
 
At any given point of time faculty member will be entitled for single remission. 
 
As mentioned earlier, Faculty members are required to be present for minimum 5 hours per 
day and atleast for 40 hours per week.  The 40 hours per week comprises Teaching 
Workload as mentioned above and balance will b e for Research, Preparation of  
Lectures/Practicals, Guiding projects, Admissions, Conduct of examinations, Paper 
setting/evaluation, involvement in Assurance of L earning, OBE process, Mentoring the 
students & guiding projects  etc. Each semester/trimester will have 15 weeks/10 weeks of 
delivery during the academic session, based on which the teaching workload is allocated to 
the faculty members. The actual workload of the  faculty members is measured against the 
expected workload mentioned here i n above to arrive  at the excess/deficit workload of the 
faculty members at the end of the academic year. 
Any additional teaching work beyond the above norms will have financial impa ct which 
will be assessed and verified as per the norms laid down by the University from time to 
time.  
 
Faculty members are required to fulfill their workload as per the stipulated University 
norms and will not be entitled for payment  for the workload tak en from any other 
school/institution under NMIMS/SVKM till the workload norms in the parent institution 
are fulfilled or till the deficit for the year/in the previous year is made good.  
 
Exceptions to carry forward of deficit workload will be considered in the case of – 
Faculty joining in the middle of the term 
Faculty on Leave due to Maternity or Medical emergency or Medical Leave 
Faculty on Extra Ordinary Leave 
Change in workload due to upgradation/change in designation

=== page 7 ===
7 
 
 
Faculty can accept additional te aching in other NMIMS schools on completion of their 
workload in parent institution/school . They have to submit an NOC  from the Dean / 
Director of parent institution / school for the same which will be available with the 
Academic Department. 
 
4. Categorization of Schools 
 
The Schools falling under each category/sub category need to follow respective norms for 
recruitment, confirmation of services, CAS, etc.  
Category Schools 
Category A       School of Business Management 
 
Category B 
A) School of Engineering/Technology Management/MCA/ Hotel  
Management & Catering Technology/Design/Fine Arts   
      B) Pharmacy 
      C) Architecture /Town Planning 
 
Category C 
A) School of Arts, Commerce, Humanities, Education, Social  Sciences, 
Sciences, Languages , Library Sci ence, Physical Education, and 
Journalism & Mass Communication, Music, Performing Arts, Visual 
Arts and Other Traditional Indian Art Forms like Sculpture, etc. 
B) School of  Law 
 
5. Terms of Appointment  
 
Faculty members fulfilling minimum eligibility cr iteria as per norms like  education 
qualifications, work experience, research & publications, etc. will be placed in appropriate 
pay scale with initial 2 years of Probation, which can be extended for a period of one more 
year after reviewing overall perform ance, research evaluation, students’ feedback, 
contribution to the University, Administrative capabilities, etc. of the individual. Once the 
overall performance of the faculty member meets t he expectations laid down by the 
University (articulated in the later part of this document) confirmation in the service will be 
accorded, after conducting final interview by the external experts to be appointed by the 
University. 
 
6.  Mandatory Doctoral Degree  
 
Doctoral Degree as per UGC norms is mandatory & minimum el igibility Criteria effective 
from July 01, 2022 for Category of Scho ols defined under A  and C in clause 4 above. For 
Category B Doctoral Degree is preferred by the University.

=== page 8 ===
8 
 
7. Direct Recruitment  
  
 For the post of Assistant Professor- 
 
Criteria Minimum Eligibility Applicable Academic Level 
Minimum 
Qualifications 
Category A & C -  
Ph.D. mandatory with 
minimum 55% in master’s 
degree in relevant 
field/specialization. 
- If the incumbent meets the minimum 
eligibility criteria at the time of 
recruitment, then he/she will be 
appointed on regular scale  in the 
Academic Levels as per the pay 
matrix (i.e. AL -10, AL 11 & AL -12)  
 
 
Category B-  
Master’s Degree First Class in 
relevant field/specialization. 
Ph.D. preferred. 
Research 
Requirement 
Atleast 2 SCI Publications in 
refereed journals.  
Experience Entry Level 2 years experience 
is desirable but not mandatory. 
 
For the post of Associate Professor Category A, B & C - 
 
Criteria Minimum Eligibility Applicable Academic Level 
Minimum 
Qualifications Ph.D. Mandatory in relevant field 
- If the incumbent meets the 
minimum eligibility criteria at the 
time of recruitment, then he/she 
will be appointed on regular scale 
in the Academic Levels as per the 
pay matrix (i.e. AL – 13A)  
 
Research 
Requirement 
At least 7 SCI Publications in 
refereed journals. 
AND 
Minimum Research Score of 75 
Experience 
Minimum of 8 years of full time 
experience in teaching / research / 
industry* out of which at least 3 
years shall be Post Ph.D. experience.  
*Experience in industry should be at  
Senior Managerial level in a large 
Organization/MNC/Conglomerate.

=== page 9 ===
9 
For the post of Professor Category A, B & C - 
 
Criteria Minimum Eligibility Applicable Academic Level 
Minimum 
Qualifications 
 
Ph.D. Mandatory in relevant field 
- If the incumbent meets the 
minimum eligibility criteria at the 
time of recruitment, then he/she 
will be appointed on regular scale 
in the Academic Levels as per the 
pay matrix (i.e. AL – 14)  
 
 
Research 
Requirement 
Atleast 10 SCI Publications in 
refereed journals 
AND 
Minimum Research Score of 120 
AND 
Guided Ph.D. Students: Atleast 2 
successful students 
Experience 
Minimum of 10-15 years of 
experience in teaching / research / 
industry out of which at least 3 years 
shall be equivalent to Associate 
Professor.  
*Experience in industry should be at  
Senior Managerial level in a large 
Organization/MNC/Conglomerate. 
 
8. Confirmation of services 
 
Particulars Requirements for Confirmation of services 
Period of 
Probation 
Probation period will be for a period of 2 years, extendable upto one more 
year based on performance. 
Performance 
Parameters & 
Research 
Requirement 
During the period of Probation: 
 
At Assistant Professor Level:  
-At least 2 Publications in UGC/AICTE refereed listed    
  journal/ABDC journals/Scopus indexed/SCI journals/web of  
  sciences. 
At Associate Professor Level:   
-At least 2 Publications in UGC/AICTE refereed listed    
 journal/ABDC journals/Scopus indexed/SCI journals/web of  
 sciences/IEEE. 
--Category : Atleast 2 publications in B Category in ABDC  
At Professor Level:   
-At least 2 Publications in UGC/AICTE refereed listed  
 journal/ABDC journals/Scopus indexed/SCI journals/web of   
 sciences/IEEE. 
-Category : Atleast 2 publications in B Category in ABDC  
Mandatory 
Trainings 
At Assistant  Professor Level : Every faculty member appointed on 
Probation will have to mandatorily undergo 8 online modules of MOOCs 
training during their period of probation for Confirmation in service.  
 
In addition, an interview may be conducted by a committee appointed by the Management.

=== page 10 ===
10 
 
9. Faculty Development 
 
NMIMS encourages Faculty Development for research, pedagogy & domain knowledge by 
way of presenting papers, undergoing training programmes, consultancy, getting exposure 
to international universities, B -schools, engaging in training enhance skills to embed new 
pedagogical tools, etc. 
 
 Specific rules for entitlement of these facilities are enumerated below: 
 
Research:  NMIMS encourages faculty possessing Doctoral degree to have students 
registered under/with them for Ph.D. programs.  Remission in teaching work is provided  
as per point 3 mentioned above .  Those faculty members who are not Ph.D. Degree holders 
are encouraged to register for Ph.D. in their respective field s of expertise for which 
Scholarships will be available, if they are registered with NMIMS. 
 
Faculty is also encouraged to undertake research through project work on behalf of 
industry, development of case studies, field work based action research etc.  For 
undertaking such activities, the Uni versity may provide seed funding for  appointing 
Research Associates  and other research related expenses for supporting the faculty 
members concerned who are undertaking various research activities.  Faculty members are 
urged to seek government funding for their projects base d on the proof of concept/pilot 
studies for which seed funding is provided.  HODs concerned / Area Chair will make 
request to the Dean with full justification for providing such assistance in the form of 
Research Associates /JRF/SRF & seed  funding.  The Dean will send this proposal to the 
Vice Chancellor with his/her recommendation for consideration & approval.   
 
NMIMS encourages faculty to participate in presenting papers in international and national 
conferences, seminars etc.  organized by recognized institutions , professional bodies  and 
sponsored by recognized Universities or recognized bodies .  A faculty member can 
participate in national level conferences / seminars with prior recommendation of HOD / 
Area Chair and approval of the Dean . For participation in international conferences & 
seminars, faculty member is encouraged by providing financial assistance as per the 
provisions in the Foreign Travel Policy Documents (Annexure II). 
 
Publications:  It is expected that faculty will be enga ged in publishing the results of their 
research activities in refereed journals  which are indexed in Scopus or web of sciences or 
ABDC, both national & international . The impact factor given only by Thomson Reuters  
will be considered for the said publicat ions. It is expect ed that faculty  will publish at  least 
one/two paper(s) in above refereed journals with indexed classification mentioned above.   
They are also expected to publish books and contribute chapters in books to be published  
by reputed publishin g houses .  In all such publications, name of NMIMS should be 
mentioned along with the name of the author to clearly show the affiliation. 
 
Trainings: NMIMS is deeply committed to continuous capability building of its Faculty, so 
that they are not just in sync with times, but always a step ahead. 
In this direction, NMIMS has institutionalized a multi -pronged Learning and Development 
(L&D) strategy. While individual schools are encouraged to attend or organize  Faculty 
Development Programs which are relevant a nd needed for the respective courses they 
teach, a central training team carries out an ongoing Training Need Assessment (TNA) to

=== page 11 ===
11 
identify areas of training that may be required for an identified certain group of employees, 
departments, schools or could be relevant for employees of all the schools.  
Accordingly, monthly open training calendar  is published for employees to enroll for the 
training they find relevant. Alternatively, HoDs, Deans, Directors may advise Faculty to 
enroll for the trainings they may  deem appropriate. These training s cover various themes 
for professional development, soft-skills development, and IT skills development. 
In addition, NMIMS keeps enriching the self-paced learning catalogue on an on-going basis 
to enable employees take these trainings at their convenient times and pace. 
 
10.  Research Promotion Policy 
 
To encourage research which is relevant & has societal impact . In this regard the following 
policy has been finalized:  
 
1. Research Grant: Each Faculty will be eligible to apply for a research grant of up to Rs.  2 
(Two)  lakhs for any of the following purposes: 
 
a. Taking up a Research Project in his/her discipline. This money could be used as seed 
money which will encourage faculty to undertake the research on a pilot basis and  
then develop major project to be funded by a national or international level body.  
b. Case Research  
c. Secretarial and Research assistance for the purpose of preparing a research-based 
document which includes a monograph or book published either in a digital mode 
or otherwise.  
d. Payment of the Registration Fee in a Double Blind Review Research Conference held 
in India or outside.  
 
2. Research Incentive: Further, to incentivize research output the following norms are in place: 
 
Sr. 
No. 
   Publication and their Impact Factor  Amount* 
   
1. Journals with Scopus impact factor of 7 and above 
or A*(ABDC) 
Rs. 2,00,000/- 
 
2. Journals with Scopus impact factor of 5 to 7 or A, 
(in ABDC)  
Rs. 1,00,000/- 
3. Journal with Scopus impact factor 3-5 or B 
Category (ABDC) 
Rs. 50,000/- 
4. Journals with Scopus impact factor of 1 to 3  or C 
Category 
Rs. 25,000/- 
5. Scopus indexed Journal Rs. 10,000/- 
 
In case of joint publication, incentive will be awarded on a pro-rata basis. Schools to assess 
the publications and put it up for approval.            
 
3. To file a Patent and actively pursue it, following assistance will be offered: 
a) University to assist in filing the Patent Application.  
b) On grant of National Patent incentive payable will be Rs. 50,000/- 
c) On commercialisation of the Patent, the royalty to be shared by the faculty with the 
institution in the ratio of 80:20.

=== page 12 ===
12 
d) On grant of International Patent incentive payable will be Rs.1,00,000/-  
e) On commercialisation of the Patent, the royalty to be shared by the faculty with the 
institution in the ratio of 80:20 
The research proposal will be put forth for approval by Dean/Director of the 
School/Campus with recommendations to Vice Chancellor. (Kindly refer to Annexure V 
& VI for application) 
 
11. Career Advancement 
 
In-house faculty members are encouraged/advised to apply for the higher posts whenever 
advertised if they are eligible as per direct recruitment norms.  Selection will be done as per 
the procedure laid down by  the University.  However, other things being equal, qualified 
faculty members with good/excellent track record of research & publications and teaching 
feedback are given due weightage during selection.  Outstanding performance of a faculty 
member will be suitably recognized by pecuniary or non -pecuniary incentives.  Faculty 
need to apply for the Career Advancement Scheme laid down from time to time, if he/she 
fulfills the minimum eligibility criteria for advancement. 
 
Procedure to apply for CAS: The CAS application is designed and is available on HRMS 
system live as ANYTIME document, which can be filled in by the faculty as and when they 
qualify as per the University laid down criteria as menti oned below. The CAS applications 
will be verified and confirmed by the Heads of the school along with their comments and 
only eligible cases will be put up before HR review committee for consideration. 
 
12. Career Advancement Scheme 
 
Faculty 
Level Stages Minimum Eligibility Criteria 
Assistant 
Professor 
AL -
10 to  
AL 11 
i) An Assistant Professor who has completed four years of service with a 
Ph.D. degree. 
OR  
An Assistant Professor who has completed five years of service with a 
M.Phil. / PG Degree in Professional Courses, such as LLM, M.Tech, 
M.V.Sc. and M.D.,  
OR  
An Assistant Professor who has completed six years of service in case of 
those without a Ph.D./M.Phil./ PG Degree in a Professional course  
AND satisfies the following conditions: 
Trainings/FDP: 
i) Attended one Orientation course/s of 21 days duration on teaching 
methodology; 
ii) Any one of the following: Completed Refresher/ Research 
Methodology Course/    Workshop/ Syllabus Up-gradation Workshop/ 
Training Teaching-Learning-Evaluation, Technology Programs/ Faculty 
Development Programmes of at least one week (5 days) duration, or 
taken one MOOCs course (with e-certification) or development of e-
contents in four-quadrants / MOOC‘s course during the assessment 
period; 
iii) Two weeks of Faculty Development Programme (FDP) in the 
relevant area out of which at least one of the FDP shall be in advanced

=== page 13 ===
13 
pedagogy recognised by AICTE / UGC / TEQIP / NITTTR 
/PMMMNMTT / IISc / IIT / University / Government / DTE / Board 
of Technical Education / CoA /IIA / SPA / ITPI / NRCs / ARPIT 
research organization / other institute of National Importance /Design 
Studio.  
OR 
One week faculty development programme as above and one eight 
weeks duration MOOCS course with E-Certification by NPTEL-AICTE 
OR 
Completed two such eight weeks duration MOOCS courses with E-
Certification by NPTEL-AICTE AND Completed minimum two weeks 
of relevant Industrial Training / Professional Training. 
Research& Publications  
i ) Published one research publication in the peer-reviewed journals or 
UGC-listed journals during assessment period  
OR  
ii) 2 Research publications in ABDC Journal/Web of Science/SCI 
journals/UGC/AICTE approved list. 
Workload : 100% Completed 
Students Feedback: Above 4 on a 7 point scale 
Average Overall Score of 80% in a 360° CAS form 
Research Score : Minimum research score of 40 in Annexure III of CAS 
form 
Assistant 
Professor 
AL-11 
to AL-
12 
i) Assistant Professors who has completed five years of service in 
Academic Level 11/Senior Scale. 
ii) A Ph.D. Degree in the subject relevant/allied/relevant discipline. 
iii) Has done any two of the following in the last five years of Academic 
Level 11/Senior Scale:  
Completed one course / programme from amongst the categories of 
Refresher Courses/Research Methodology/Workshops/ Syllabus Up-
gradation Workshop/ Teaching-Learning-Evaluation/ Technology 
Programmes. 
OR 
Faculty Development Programme of at least two weeks (ten days) 
duration (or completed two courses of at  least one week (five days) 
duration in lieu of every single course/programme of at least two 
weeks (ten days) duration), Two weeks of Faculty Development 
Programme (FDP) in the relevant area recognised by AICTE / 
UGC / TEQIP / NITTTR / PMMMNMTT / IISc / IIT / University / 
Government / DTE / Board of Technical Education / CoA / IIA / SPA 
/ ITPI / NRCs / ARPIT / research organization / other institute of 
National Importance / Design Studio. 
OR 
Completed one MOOCs course in the relevant subject (with e-
certification); OR  One week faculty development programme as above 
and one eight weeks duration MOOCS course with E-Certification by 
NPTEL-AICTE 
OR  
Contribution towards the development of e-content in 4-quadrant (at 
least one quadrant) minimum of 10 modules of a course/contribution

=== page 14 ===
14 
towards the development of at least 10 modules of MOOCs course/ 
contribution towards conduct of a MOOCs course during the period of 
assessment. OR Completed two such eight weeks duration MOOCS 
courses with E-Certification by NPTEL-AICTE AND Completed 
minimum two weeks of relevant Industrial Training / Professional 
Training 
Research & Publications with minimum research score of 90 in 
Annexure III of CAS form 
Published three research papers in the peer-reviewed journals or 
UGC/AICTE-listed journals /SCI journals/ABDC journals/ Web of 
Science during assessment period. 
Workload : 100% Completed 
Students Feedback: Above 4 on a 7 point scale 
Average Overall Score of 80% in a 360° CAS form 
Research Score : Minimum research score of 100 in Annexure III of CAS 
form 
Associate 
Professor 
AL-12 
to AL 
13A 
i) Assistant Professor who has completed three years of service in 
Academic Level 12/ Selection grade. 
ii) A Ph.D Degree in the subject concerned/allied/relevant discipline. 
iii) Any one of the following during last three years:  
Completed one course / programme from amongst the categories of 
Refresher Courses/ Research Methodology Workshops/Syllabus Up-
gradation Workshop/ 
Teaching-Learning-Evaluation Technology Programme. 
OR 
Faculty Development Programme of at least two weeks (ten days) 
duration (or completed two courses of at least one week (five days) 
duration in lieu of every single course/programme of at least two 
weeks (ten days) duration); Two weeks of Faculty Development 
Programme (FDP) in the relevant area recognised by AICTE /UGC / 
TEQIP / NITTTR / PMMMNMTT / IISc / IIT / University / 
Government / DTE / Board of Technical Education / CoA / IIA / SPA 
/ ITPI / NRCs / ARPIT / research organization / other institute of 
National Importance / Design Studio. 
OR  
Completed one MOOCs course (with E-certification);One week faculty 
development programme as above and one eight weeks duration 
MOOCS course with E-Certification by NPTEL-AICTE 
OR 
Contribution towards the development of e-content in 4-quadrant (at 
least one quadrant) minimum of 10 modules of a course/contribution 
towards development of at least 10 modules of MOOCs course/ 
contribution towards conduct of a MOOCs course during the period of 
assessment. Completed two such eight weeks duration MOOCS courses 
with E-Certification by NPTEL-AICTE AND Completed minimum two 
weeks of relevant Industrial Training / Professional Training. 
Research& Publications  
i) A minimum of seven publications in the peer-reviewed or UGC-listed 
journals or /SCI journals/ABDC journals/ Web of Science out of which 
three research papers should have been published during the

=== page 15 ===
15 
assessment period. 
ii) Evidence of having guided at least one Ph.D. candidate. 
Workload : 100% Completed 
Students Feedback: Above 5.5 on a 7 point scale 
Average Overall Score of 80% in a 360° CAS form 
Research Score : Minimum research score of 90 in Annexure III of CAS 
form 
Professor 
AL-
13A to 
AL-14 
i) An Associate Professor who has completed three years of service in 
Academic Level 13 A. 
ii) A Ph.D degree in the subject concerned/allied/relevant discipline. 
Research & Publications 
i) A minimum of ten research publications in the peer- reviewed or 
UGC-listed journals or SCI journals /ABDC journals/ Web of Science 
out of which three research papers should have been published during 
the assessment period. 
ii) Evidence of having successfully guided atleast 2 doctoral candidate. 
Workload : 100% Completed 
Students Feedback: Above 6 on a 7 point scale 
Average Overall Score of 80% in a 360° CAS form 
Research Score : Minimum research score of 120 in Annexure III of CAS 
form 
 
Senior 
Professor 
AL-14 
to AL 
- 15 
A Professor can be promoted to the post of Senior Professor under the 
CAS. The promotion shall be based on academic achievement, favorable 
review from three eminent subject -experts who are not of the rank 
lower than the rank of a  Senior Professor or a Professor having at least 
ten years’ of experience. The selection shall be based on 10 best  
publications during the  last 10 years and interaction with a Selection 
Committee constituted in accordance with these  
Regulations. 
Eligibility: 
i) Ten years’ experience as a Professor.  
ii) A minimum of ten publications in the peer -reviewed or UGC -listed 
journals /SCI journals/AB DC journals/ Web of Science  and Ph.D. 
degree has been successfully awarded to two candidates under his/her 
supervision during the assessment period. 
 
 Note: For calculation of basic Research Score kindly refer to Annexure IV. 
 
13. Grievance Redressal Mechanism 
 
The grievances regarding HR linked individual issues can be taken up with the Pro -Vice 
Chancellor who will try to address the matter after giving hearing to the applicant.  All 
grievances related to other matters should be first taken up with the Dean who will address 
the issue by giving hearing to the applicant.  If the applicant is not satisfied with the 
decision in the matter given by the Dean, the faculty member may approach the Pro Vice 
Chancellor / Vice Chancellor for redressal of grievance.  T he decision of the Vice 
Chancellor will be final and binding.

=== page 16 ===
16 
 
14. Consultancy & MDP 
 
The University has formulated detailed rules for facilitating consultancy work to be 
undertaken by faculty members.  The Rules regarding Consulting Work at NMIMS 
University are given in Annexure-III. 
 
15. Performance Evaluation 
 
Performance evaluation of each faculty member will be done at the end of every academic 
year based on the following activities: 
I. Teaching Performance – students’ feedback (Independently obtained) 
II. (a) Research work include guiding Ph.D. research scholars 
(b) Publication of papers in important national and international journals which 
are indexed in Scopus, web of sciences, ABDC, etc. , books, monographs, book 
chapter/s; 
   (c) Presentation of papers in conferences, both national & international 
III. (a) Engagement in consultancy assignments 
(b) Participation in students’ development activities 
 IV.       (a) Participation   in   adminis trative   work   like   programme management, 
admission including GD/PI etc. 
(b)    Participation in placement of students. 
 
For the purposes of evaluation, different weightages will be assigned to the above 
mentioned four groups of activities as follows: 
 
Group Parameters Faculty-UG Faculty-PG 
I. Teaching 50 40 
II. Research & 
Publications 
30 40 
III. Consultancy 
and 
Participation in 
Students’ 
Development 
Activities 
10             10 
IV. Administrative 
Work & 
Placement 
10 10 
       Total 100 100 
 
 
At the end of every academic year, faculty members are  expected to submit self ap praisal 
report specifying the work done by them as regards parameters at Groups II, III & IV with 
supporting papers.  The format for self-appraisal will be as prescribed in Byelaws or as may 
be notified from time to time.

=== page 17 ===
17 
On the basis of the documents sub mitted by the faculty member, and the students’ 
feedback received by the Dean as regards parameter at Group I above, a Committee 
comprising  
1) Pro-Vice Chancellor 
2) Dean concerned 
3) Two persons nominated by the Chancellor 
will evaluate the performance of each faculty member at the end of every academic year. 
 
The recommendations of this Committee will be placed before the Management for 
approval through the Vice Chancellor.  This may also form the bases for incentive, if any, to 
be given to the faculty member.  T he Dean will give feedback of the evaluation to each 
faculty member in an appropriate manner before the beginning of the next academic year. 
 
16. Code of Professional Ethics 
 
I. Faculty members and their Responsibilities: 
 
Whoever adopts teaching as a professi on assumes the obligation to conduct himself / 
herself in accordance with the ideal of the profession. A faculty member is constantly under 
the scrutiny of his students and the society at large.  Therefore, every faculty member 
should see that there is no i ncompatibility between his precepts and practice. The national 
ideals of education which have already been set forth and which he/she should seek to 
inculcate among students must be his/her own ideals. The profession further requires that 
the faculty membe r should be calm, patient and communicative by temperament and 
amiable in disposition. 
 
Faculty member should: 
(i) Adhere to a responsible manner of conduct and demeanour expected of them by the 
community; 
(ii) Manage their private affairs in a manner consistent with the dignity of the profession; 
(iii) Seek to make professional growth continuous through study and research; 
(iv) Express free and frank opinion by participation at professional meetings, seminars, 
conferences etc., towards the contribution of knowledge; 
(v) Maintain active membership of professional organisations and strive to improve 
education and profession through them; 
(vi) Perform their duties in the form of teaching, tutorials, practicals, seminars and research 
work, conscientiously and with dedication; 
(vii) Discourage and not indulge in plagiarism and other non -ethical behaviour in teaching 
and research; 
(viii) Abide by the Act, Statute and Ordinance, Rules & Regulations of the University and to 
respect its ideals, vision, mission, cultural practices and tradition; 
(ix) Co -operate and assist in carrying out the functions relating to the educational 
responsibilities of the schools and the university, such as: assisting in appraising 
applications for admission, advising and counselling stud ents as well as assisting the 
conduct of university and college examinations, including supervision, invigilation and 
evaluation; and 
(x) Participate in extension, co -curricular and extra -curricular activities, including the 
community service.

=== page 18 ===
18 
II. Faculty members and Students 
 
Faculty members should: 
(i) Respect the rights and dignity of the student in expressing his/her opinion; 
(ii) Deal justly and impartially with students regardless of their religion, caste, gender, 
political, economic, social and physical characteristics; 
(iii) Recognise the difference in aptitude and capabilities among students and strive to meet 
their individual needs; 
(iv) Encourage students to improve their attainment , develop their personalities and at the 
same time contribute to community welfare; 
(v) Inculcate among students’ scientific temper, spirit of inquiry and ideals of democracy, 
patriotism, social justice, environmental protection and peace; 
(vi) Treat the students with dignity and not behave in a vindictive manner towar ds any of 
them for any reason; 
(vii) Pay attention to only the attainment of the student in the assessment of merit; 
(viii) Make themselves available to the students even beyond their class hours and help and 
guide students without any remuneration or reward; 
(ix) Aid students to develop an understanding of our national heritage and national goals;
 (x) Refrain from inciting students against other students, colleagues or administration. 
 
III. Faculty members and Colleagues 
 
Faculty members should: 
(i) Treat other members of the profession in the same manner as they themselves wish to be 
treated; 
(ii) Speak respectfully of other faculty members and render assistance for professional 
betterment; 
(iii) Refrain from making unsubstantiated allegations against coll eagues to higher 
authorities; and 
(iv) Refrain from allowing considerations of caste, creed, religion, race or sex in their 
professional endeavour. 
 
IV. Faculty members and Authorities: 
 
Faculty members should: 
(i) Discharge their professional responsibilities according to the existing rules and adhere to 
procedures and methods consistent with their profession in initiating steps through their 
own institutional bodies and / or professional organisations for change of any such rule 
detrimental to the professional interest; 
(ii) Refrain from undertaking any other employment and commitment, including private 
tuitions and coaching classes which are likely to interfere with their professional 
responsibilities; 
(iii) Co -operate in the formulation of policies of th e institution /University by accepting 
various offices and discharge responsibilities which such offices may demand; 
(iv) Co-operate through their Schools in the formulation of policies of the other Schools and 
accept offices; 
(v) Co-operate with the authorities for the betterment of the University/Schools keeping in 
view the interest and in conformity with the dignity of the profession; 
(vi) Adhere to the terms of contract/appointment; 
(vii) Give and expect due notice before a change of position takes place; and

=== page 19 ===
19 
(viii) Refrain from availing themselves of leave except on unavoidable grounds and as far 
as practicable with prior intimation, keeping in view their particular responsibility for 
completion of academic schedule. 
(ix) Faculty member’s behaviour should not bring the University into disrepute. 
 
 
V. Faculty members and Non-Teaching Staff : 
 
Faculty members should: 
(i) Treat the non -teaching staff as colleagues and equal partners in a  cooperative 
undertaking, across departments; 
(ii) Help in the functioning of joint-staff councils covering both the faculty members and the 
non-teaching staff. 
 
VI. Faculty members and Guardians 
 
Faculty members should: 
(i) Try to see through faculty members' bodies and organisations, that University maintain 
contact with the  guardians, their students, send reports of their performance to the 
guardians whenever necessary and meet the guardians in meetings convened for the 
purpose for mutual exchange of ideas and for the benefit of the institution. 
 
VII. Faculty members and Society 
 
Faculty members should: 
(i) Recognise that education is a public service and strive to keep the public informed of the 
educational programmes which are being provided; 
(ii) Work to improve education in the community and strengthen the community's mor al 
and intellectual life; 
(iii) Be aware of social problems and take part in such activities as would be conducive to 
the progress of society and hence the country as a whole; 
(iv) Perform the duties of citizenship, participate in community activities and shoulder 
responsibilities of public offices; 
(v) Refrain from taking part in or subscribing to or assisting in any way activities, which 
tend to promote feeling of hatred or enmity among different communities, religions or 
linguistic groups but actively work for national integration. 
 
Kindly refer to NMIMS Rules & Regulations for-  
 
Leave Rules, Women’s Grievance Redressal, LTA/LTC, Travelling & Halting 
Allowances, Discipline & Appeals, Staff Grievance Redressal & Other Regulations.

=== page 20 ===
20 
ANNEXURE - I 
Duties of Adjunct faculty 
The faculty of S chool comprises of regular full -time and part-time adjunct faculty positions.  In 
addition to this , school engages visiting faculty who will deliver full course/s or part of a course 
in several programmes.  NMIMS also in vites guest faculty from time to time to handle some 
sessions in programmes to enhance relevance and expose students to industry best practices .  The 
compensation package, rights, privileges, duties and responsibilities of adjunct and visiting 
faculty have  evolved over the year s and considerable variation  in terms of experience and 
exposure across these positions is seen.   
This note describes the policy and procedures for appointment of Adjunct Faculty. 
 
Sr. 
No. Particulars For Senior Adjunct Faculty Adjunct Faculty 
1 Qualifications 
Master’s Degree in the relevant 
area of specialization from 
prestigious institutions like IIT, 
IIM, NIPER, NIT, BITS, NITIE, 
XLRI, etc. or Top 20 well known 
Universities of national & 
international repute OR 
Qualification acquired from 
reputed bodies/Professional 
Bodies of ICAI, ICSI, ICWAI, 
etc.  
Ph.D. from a reputed Institution 
or University is desirable. 
Qualification and 
experience at par with full 
time regular faculty  
2 Experience  More than 25 years  Less than or equal to 25 
years  
3 Age Limit 70 yrs. 70 yrs. 
4 
Monthly Presence @ 
NMIMS 75 hours 90 hours 
5 Holidays Not Applicable Not Applicable 
6 
Vacation 
No Summer Vacation and hence will not be entitled for 
honorarium/pay. Any shortage in hours on account of 
Diwali & Christmas break to be adjusted either before or 
after during the same month.  
7 Teaching Workload Hours for the Academic year 
  SBM-Mumbai 160 
  SBM at other campuses & 
PDSCE&FB 200 
  MBA, Tech & MPSTME 215 
  All other 
schools/center/campus/programs 300 
Notes:  
Additional teaching workload over and above mentioned in the adjacent cell, will be verified at the 
end of Academic year and financial impact will be considered as per  the University norms from time 
to time.

=== page 21 ===
21 
Roles & Responsibilities of Adjunct Faculty 
1. Adjunct Faculty would be a  professional providing intellectual ambience to the School 
based on his/her industry experience. 
2. The duration of this type of appointment would be clearly specified and would be for a 
period not exceeding one year /11 months  and is renewable on merit. The terms of 
appointment would state the specific term with ending date. In absence of a reappointment 
prior to the expiry of the specified term, the appointment ipso facto terminates on the 
specified ending date. 
3. Teaching will be confined to their f ield of specialization and Area chair  will be required to 
approve their plans. Teaching plan need s to have course outline based on which teaching 
plan will be approved. They will follow all academic processes at the school. 
4. Adjunct Faculty would be required to spend at least 75 hrs/90hrs (Sr. Adjunct 
faculty/Adjunct faculty) in a month at the School and will have a minimum teaching load.  
The minimum required teaching load would be worked out based on the amount of time 
the fac ulty proposes to spend (indicated by number of days in a week) at the School. 
Courses with low enrollments will not be offered and in these situations Adjunct Faculty 
need to adjust her/his teaching load in other schools.   
5. Teaching of a course by an Adjun ct Faculty would require her/him to assume full 
responsibility for all activities connected with the course, including the design of course 
detailed outline, approval of course outline by the Area  chair, offering of course and 
meeting the standards of the offering at the School, addressing feedback from 
students/Area chair/Dean from time to time, and grading/feedback to students.  
6. Adjunct Faculty, subje ct to the approval of the Dean , may co -supervise along with a 
member of the regular faculty a Ph D student .  The rules for such involvement will be 
clearly laid down by the Ph D Committee and the contribution of Adjunct Faculty will be 
monitored at regular intervals. 
7. The work done by the Adjunct Faculty wil l be reviewed each year.  Dean  in consultation 
with the Area chair/Centre chairperson shall review the appointment each year. University 
shall decide renewal of contract on the basis of review by the Dean.  Reappointment or 
extension of current appointment would follow the same procedure of regular faculty. 
8. Adjunct Faculty shall have all faculty privileges with regard to access to library services, 
working space when in School and IT access. Adjunct Faculty will be invited to faculty 
meeting and will attend the School functions and convocation.   
9. Adjunct Facul ty will not handle any administrative activity and her/his role will be 
confined to handl ing the teaching and research workload of the School Programmes.  
Adjunct Faculty will contribute to the case writing effort and help the School to develop 
contextual material. The Area chair will arrange secretarial assistance and other support on 
need basis, if required. 
10. It is necessary for the Adjunct Faculty to obtain prior approval of the Dean in case she/he is 
accepting any other teaching assignment (including MDPs) with other organization.  
11. Adjunct Faculty will receive compensation as lump -sum payment depending on the 
services rendered as per the University norms and will not be entitled to any leave.   
12. There is no equivalence between adjunct and regular titles/designations.

=== page 22 ===
22 
Evaluation/Review 
 
Dean in consultation with the concerned Area  chair/Head having adjunct faculty shall establish 
performance criteria.  The basis for developing these criteria would be number of days spent at 
School, courses taught, informal and formal feedback, and any expectations indicated above.  As a 
part of acknowledging the contribution of adjunct faculty, a review  along with performance 
assessment report must be submitted at least three months prior to the completion of the period of 
Contract.  Termination of appointment within the appointment period shall be by mutual consent 
or by request of the Dean or the faculty member.

=== page 23 ===
23 
ANNEXURE II 
FOREIGN TRAVEL POLICY 
Preamble 
The SVKM management is pleased to issue the enclosed Foreign Tr avel Policy, which becomes 
applicable across all the institutions and the central office of SVKM with immediate effect.   
 
The opening up of the education sector and the globalization in the various spheres of life have 
created reasons to consider foreign travel for purposes like exploration of international 
opportunities, linkages, participation in intellectual events, research and spread of education. The 
SVKM management, within its limitations of being an educational institution, desires to pursue 
such benefits, to the advantage of both the employee and the trust.  Foreign travel, in that sense, is 
not a matter of right or perquisite, but an opportunity for intellectual enlightenment and a welfare 
measure.  A reciprocation by the employee by being careful  about the travel expenses, as if they 
were being incurred at his personal cost, is expected. 
 
The enclosed policy is worded as the Foreign Travel Policy of SVKM’s NMIMS  University.  
However, references to various authorities at NMIMS are to be construed a s referring to 
equivalent such authorities in the other institutions and the central office of SVKM.   
 
INDEX 
 
1 Approvals 
2 Purposes 
3 Entitlements 
4 Eligibility for business class fare 
5 Eligibility for higher allowances 
6 Foreign travel reimbursement strictly for official purpose 
7 Other Points    
8 Forms

=== page 24 ===
24 
1. Approvals: 
 
 1.1. Prior written approval of Foreign Travel Approval Committee (FTAC) will be essential, 
before making any commitment on foreign travel.  FTAC will be constituted by the 
Chancellor, in consultation with the Vice Chancellor.  Foreign Travel of the Vice 
Chancellor and of the Senior Advisor to the Chancellor shall be placed for prior approval 
before the Board of Management, and in case the next meeting of the Board of 
Management i s not scheduled prior to undertaking the foreign travel, then before the 
Chancellor, followed by ratification in the next Board of Management Meeting.  All 
foreign travel approvals by FTAC will be put up in the Office Bearers meeting for prior 
financial sanction to incur the expenditure. 
 
 1.2 FTAC will meet as and when required, within 7 days of receiving at least one eligible 
application in the office of the Vice Chancellor. 
 
 1.3 FTAC will be approving the applications that satisfy the criteria laid down  in that regard, 
upto a cumulative value not exceeding the approved annual budget for foreign travel.  If 
such budget is exhausted before the end of the  year, the University will have to get 
additional budget allocation sanctioned from the relevant authori ties, before FTAC can 
consider further applications in that year.   Such additional budget allocation will be 
processed by the Internal Finance Committee of NMIMS, from where it will go before the 
Office Bearers, and then for final approval of the Board of  Management of the University 
as well as Managing Committee of SVKM. 
 
1.4. The criteria on which FTAC will assess each application will include: 
  
 a. The ranking/reputation of the foreign entity being visited by the employee. 
  
 b. Outcome of the peer rev iew or review by the committee to be appointed by FTAC, of the 
paper proposed to be presented by the employee. 
  
 c. If there has been a double blind review of the paper by the organizer of conference and, if 
yes, then the comments obtained in such review. 
 
 d. The past track record of the employee in his work and in area related to the purpose of 
travel. 
 
 e. Whether there is an invitation to present the paper, or is it mere acceptance of the paper.  
Whether the participation is based on acceptance of full paper or merely of the abstract.  
 
 f. Will such presentation be in the plenary session, semi plenary session or the session for 
poster presentation?  
 
 g. Have the organizers offered any financial support for the presentation. 
 
 h. The sincerity of the e fforts made by the applicant for seeking financial assistance from 
UGC/AICTE, the foreign entity, or any other possible source of funds such as like minded 
trusts working in the same field of activity. 
 
 i. Is the end to end duration of journey not exceeding seven days.

=== page 25 ===
25 
 j. Has the employee successfully completed his probation, and is confirmed in the 
employment with a minimum two years’ service with the University. 
 
 k. Is the frequency of his foreign travel, while in the employ of the University, within the 
norm of once in a financial year, for the purpose of paper presentation or training.  
 
 l. Whether the paper to be presented is a Research Paper or a Concept Paper.   
 
2. Purposes: 
 
 2.1. The purposes for which foreign travel may be undertaken are: 
 
  2.1.1. To present a paper at a conference, provided the paper meets the eligibility criteria 
laid down at 8.1 
 
2.1.2. To attend a training programme, sponsored at least partly by the foreign entity 
conducting the programme. 
  
  2.1.3. To negotiate and finalise tie-ups with foreign universities, and to execute agreements 
with them. 
 
  2.1.4 To teach at an overseas university, as part of faculty exchange programme. 
 
  2.1.5. To escort students of the University on educational tour. 
  
  2.1.6. Any other purpose for institutional development that may be approved by the 
FTAC. 
3. Entitlements 
 
 3.1. The travelling employee of the University, where the travel period is less than one month, 
and the purpose of travel is other than to present paper, will be entitled to the following: 
 
  3.1.1. Airfare: Travelling employee will normally be entitled to economy air fare by 
shortest to and fro route between Mumbai/airport nearest to off centre campus 
other than Mumbai and the Foreign destination. Other things being the sam e, 
preference will be given to the cheapest airline. 
 
  3.1.2. Visa Charges: Visa charges will be reimbursable in full, unless otherwise stated in 
the approval of FTAC. 
 
  3.1.3. Health and Accident Insurance: Minimum Health and accident insurance for the 
duration of the Journey will be reimbursable, unless otherwise stated in the 
approval of FTAC. 
 
  3.1.4. Registration Fees: Reimbursement of actual registration fees in full or in part, as 
approved by FTAC, for attending a conference or a training programm e, shall be 
made.

=== page 26 ===
26 
  3.1.5. Conveyance between residence and airport: Reimbursement of to and fro 
conveyance between residence and airport, by autorickshaw or taxi, will be 
allowed at actuals. 
 
  3.1.6 Local Conveyance in the foreign country: Local conveyance in the foreign country 
including to and fro between the foreign airport and the hotel or place of stay will 
be allowed at actuals.  If the practice for the transporter in that place is to issue 
bills, the reimbursement will have to be claimed against such bills.  
     
  3.1.7. Hotel stay: Hotel charges for stay abroad will be reimbursable at actuals, subject to 
limits laid down as under, for stay in a three-star hotel: 
   a. United States of America and Canada, not exceeding USD 150 per day. 
   b. Europe, not exceeding Euro 125 per day. 
   c. Australia, not exceeding AUD 200 per day. 
   d. Singapore, not exceeding SGD 200 per day. 
   e. China, not exceeding USD 100 per day. 
   f. Countries in the Far East, not exceeding USD 125 per day. 
   g. Countries in Middle East, not exceeding USD 100 per day. 
 h. Countries surrounding India, like Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar, 
Srilanka and Maldives not exceeding Indian Rs.5000 per day. 
 i. If the visit is to any other country, the entitlement and the limit for hotel stay 
expenses will be as laid down by the Chancellor for the specific visit. 
 
 The travelling employees are expected to stay in a hotel equivalent to no more than a 
3-star hotel and within the amount stipulated at 3.1.7 a to i, as revised from ti me to 
time. 
   
  The aforesaid rates of reimbursement are subject to review by the Board of 
Management, from time to time. 
    
  3.1.8. The limits laid down under 3.1.7 are for bare stay (i.e. lodging) expenses, including 
taxes thereon.  All other items, s uch as boarding, room service, mini bar, laundry, 
telephone, internet etc. shall be governed by other sections of this policy. 
 
  3.1.9. Adequate documentary proof like hotel bills, receipts etc., will be required to be 
submitted to claim the amount. 
 
  3.1.10. If an employee is entitled to hotel stay, but manages alternative accommodation 
such as the residence of the host, or of a relative or friend etc., he will be entitled to 
an allowance of USD 25 per day, to cover incidental expenses.    
 
  3.1.11. Food and incidental expenses: 
   A per day allowance will be payable for food and incidental expenses as under: 
   a. United States of America and Canada, USD 70 per day. 
   b. Europe, Euro 50 per day. 
   c. Australia, AUD 70 per day. 
   d. Singapore, SGD 70 per day. 
   e. China, USD 40 per day. 
   f. Countries in the Far East, USD 50 per day. 
   g. Countries in the Middle East, USD 50 per day

=== page 27 ===
27 
   h. Countries surrounding India, like Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar, 
Srilanka and Maldives, Indian Rs.1000 per day. 
   i. Any other country, USD 50 per day. 
 
  3.1.12. The per day allowance at 3.1.11 will normally include all expenses, other than 
those specifically covered elsewhere in this policy.  Expenses like tips, porterage, 
entertainment, etc., are also covered in the per day allowance. 
 
  3.1.13. Conversion charges from one currency to another or bank commission for 
encashment of travelers cheques will also be a part of the per day limit. 
 
  3.1.14. Communication expenses:  
    
   a) Communication has to be  essentially through email.  Where email is not 
possible or is costly, it shall be through other economical means like SMS, local 
sim card, facsimile, public landline facility etc.  
   b) Use of mobile phones is to be kept to bare minimum, and only for off icial 
purposes.  Reimbursement of the same will be decided on case to case basis, 
against itemized bill and provision of details about the persons called, and 
duration and purpose of each call. 
   c) There shall be no reimbursement of mobile or other telep hone bills for personal 
calls during overseas travel.  
d) The travelling employee will make adequate administrative arrangements at 
his normal place of work (i.e. Mumbai or the off Centre Campus where he 
works), such that no mobile or telephone calls are r equired to be exchanged 
between him and base office, except in emergency.  The staff normally 
reporting to him will mandatorily report to his local substitute during his 
absence due to foreign travel. 
 3.2 When the travel is for presenting a paper, the employee will only be entitled to 50% of the 
airfare by cheapest airline on shortest route, and full registration fee, as reduced by 
sponsorship obtained from the organizers or any other entity and as reduced by travel 
grant obtained from UGC/AICTE.  
 
 3.3 If an employee of the University is traveling for one month or more, his entitlement under 
various heads of expenses, will be as laid down by the FTAC, depending upon the nature 
of the visit, the opportunity to earn during travel, facilities, amenities and a llowances 
offered by the host etc. 
    
4. The following officials will be entitled to business class fare, in place of economy fares: 
  - Chancellor 
  - Joint President of SVKM    
 
5. The entitlement for hotel stay and other expenses will be at actuals, for the following officials. 
  - Chancellor 
  - Joint President of SVKM   
 
6. The foreign travel is to be undertaken for official purpose by the concerned employee, 
approved in that regard under the policy.  Any deviation from the approved terms and 
conditions, including in the duration of the visit will be considered as being personal purpose 
and while on leave.  Prior approval for such leave will have to be obtained by the employee in 
the usual manner as laid down in the leave policy.

=== page 28 ===
28 
7. Other Points 
 7.1.  Reporting and Sharing:  
  7.1.1. Foreign travel is a valuable experience, worthy of sharing, and more so 
in an educational institution.  While some of the sharing and reporting 
is mandatory under the policy, the rest is recommended and 
encouraged.  
 
  7.1.2. The travelling employee will submit a Travel Report, alongwith his 
foreign travel expenses statement.  The Travel Report will cover the 
purpose of his travel and other relevant factors related to the purpose 
of travel.  For example, if the foreign tra vel was for paper presentation, 
then details about the conference, with particular focus on the session 
in which his paper was presented, and on his presentation.  Similarly, 
if it was for a training programme, then brief details of the same may 
be reported. 
 
    ‘Foreign travel expenses statement’ will not be processed and settled, 
unless the Travel Report is attached to it. 
  
  7.1.3. The travelling employee will make a presentation to a group 
comprising of his colleagues, HOD, Dean and other concerned 
employees of the University and other institutions of SVKM, dealing in 
greater detail with the subject matter of his report, within a reasonable 
time frame, after his return. 
 
  7.1.4. The places visited by the travelling employee may be captured on 
video films or photographs, if, in the judgment of the employee, such 
shooting will be useful for the institutional development.  The 
employee will be reimbursed the cost thereof.  An example of such 
places could be a well equipped and designed laboratory, library  etc.
    
 
  7.1.5. He may have done video shooting, taken photographs or collected 
other information of general interest about the places visited by him.  
This policy encourages the travelers to share such articles of 
information and human interest. 
 
 7.2. Linkages and networking: Every foreign visit gives the traveler a scope to 
personally interact with educationists from different parts of the globe.  
Such limited interactions may have the potential to go a long way in the 
years to come.  Every employee o f the University who undertakes foreign 
travel is expected and encouraged to interact with as many counterparts as 
possible, create personal linkages and nurture as well as institutionalize 
them.   
 
 7.3. Accounting Treatment  
  7.3.1. All expenses incurre d by the employer for purchase of air tickets, visa 
charges, insurance, advance to hotel etc. will be shown as advance paid

=== page 29 ===
29 
to the travelling employee.  Similarly, foreign exchange provided to the 
travelling employee by the employer will be booked as advan ce to the 
employee. 
   
  7.3.2. Only after proper submission of foreign travel expense statement with 
necessary supporting bills/receipts, and travel report, will the expense 
statement be approved by the immediate superior of the traveler, and 
thereafter by the Finance Controller.  After that approval the expenses 
will be booked and advance reduced from the account of the employee.  
Delay in completion of paper work, will thus show large advance 
outstanding in the name of the travelling employee.

=== page 30 ===
30 
8. Forms 
8.1 Form for application for undertaking foreign travel for presenting paper at a 
conference (Refer 2.1.1) 
A Basic Details:  
1 Name of the Employee :  
   
2 Employee Code No. :  
   
3 School to which the employee belongs :  
   
4 Employee’s qualifications :  
   
5 Employee’s experience: Yrs :           Months :    
 a) Total   
 b) At NMIMS   
    
6 Details of papers already presented in the last 5 years, 
indicating the name of conference, host body, country, 
dates, title of the paper, co -authors if any etc. to be 
annexed to the application. 
 
    
B Paper related information :   
1 Conference details :    
 a. Hosting body :   
 b. Country :   
 c. Date/s :   
 d. Type of Participants expected :   
 e. Is the hosting body one of the top 50 Global     
    Business School/Technology Institutions       
   (If yes, disclose the ranking used) 
: Yes/No 
    
2 Paper Details :   
 a. Title of the Paper :   
 b. Names of co-authors, if any, and their details :  
 c. If there are co-authors, are you the presenter. : Yes/No 
 d. Is your participation based on acceptance of  the 
paper.  
: Yes/No 
 e. Do you have a firm invitation to present your    
    paper at the conference? 
: Yes/No 
 f. If answer to 2(e) is yes, enclose the invitation.   
 g. Has there been a double-blind review of     
    your paper, prior to invitation? 
 Yes/No 
 h. If answer to 2(g) is yes, enclose reviewers’     
   comments 
:

=== page 31 ===
31 
 
 
C  Estimate of expenses and support requested for  :                                      (Amt. in Rs.) 
 
 (A) (B) (C) (D) (E) 
Expenses Heads 
 
 
Estimate
d 
Expense 
UGC/AICTE 
Travel Grant 
applied for/ 
recd. 
Registration 
waiver from 
host body 
applied 
for/recd. 
Net 
Estimated 
Expenses      
(A-B-C) 
Appro
val 
Sought 
for, 
from 
the 
Univer
sity 
1.Airfare (shortest 
route,   economy 
class) 
     
2.Visa Charges      
3.Health & 
Accident 
Insurance 
     
4.Registration fees      
5.Conveyance 
residence-airport-
residence 
     
6.Local 
Conveyance in the 
foreign country 
     
7. Lodging 
expenses 
     
8. Food, local 
conveyance and 
incidental 
expenses 
     
9. Any other (pl. 
specify) 
     
10. Total      
 
Note : It is mandatory to apply for travel grant scheme and registration waiver, and 
preferably to know the outcome of such applications, before applying to the 
University for financial approval.  If you have not so applied, please disclose the 
reasons for not doing so.

=== page 32 ===
32 
D Declaration of original work 
 
 I hereby confirm and declare that my/our paper entitled __________________ 
(title of paper) is my/our original work, with the excepti on of quotations from 
other persons’ work which are expressly acknowledged in the paper and for the 
inclusion of each one of which, their prior approvals have been taken, where 
necessary. 
 
 I further confirm that in case it is discovered and proved later t hat the aforesaid 
paper is not my/our original work, I shall be subject to such disciplinary action 
as may be decided upon by the University, including immediate recovery of any 
financial assistance that may have been given to me for presenting the paper a t 
the conference.  I also confirm that in the event of any litigation being initiated in 
this regard against the University, I will keep the University fully indemnified at 
all times.   
 
E. Bond :  
 I hereby agree that in the event any financial assistance  is granted to me, I shall, 
before collecting the amount, execute a bond as per the University Policy, for 
minimum period of service and/or return of the amount of financial assistance, 
in the event of my leaving the service of the University, for whatever  reason, 
within two years from the date of return from the conference.  
 
F. Patent/Intellectual Property Right: 
 I hereby confirm that in the event any Patent or Intellectual Property Right arises 
from the paper, the same shall be taken in the partnership of SVKM’s NMIMS 
University. 
 
G. Settlement of Accounts : 
 I hereby confirm and undertake that if I am allowed to undertake foreign travel 
for presentation of the paper, with full or part financial assistance by the 
University, I shall submit the full accou nt, with supporting, and with a travel 
report, within 10 working days of my return.  I also undertake to lead a 
discussion seminar within the same time frame.   
 
 
 
Date :                                                                               Signature : 
 
Place :   Applicant’s Name :

=== page 33 ===
33 
8.2 Form of Application for Financial Assistance to attend a training programme 
outside  India (Refer 2.1.2) 
 
A Basic Details:  
1 Name of the Employee :  
   
2 Employee Code No.:  
   
3 School to which the employee belongs :  
   
4 Employee’s qualifications :  
   
5 Employee’s experience:  Yrs:       Months :  
 a) Total  
 b) At NMIMS  
   
6 Details of training programmes already 
attended in the last 5 years in India and 
abroad, indicating the name of the 
institution which conducted it, the place, 
name of the programme, duration, 
subjects taught, to be annexed to the 
application. 
 
   
B.  Training related information  
1 Name of the Institution imparting the 
training : 
 
2 Country  
3 Date/s of training  
4 Number of days of training  
5 Subject of training and topics likely to be 
covered 
 
6 Faculty Details  
7 Arrangement proposed for handling your 
workload, in your absence, at the 
University 
 
 
8 Justification for doing the training 
programme in terms of self -development 
and in terms of advantage to the 
University.

=== page 34 ===
34 
 
 
C. Estimate of expenses and support requested for  :                               (Amt. in Rs.) 
 
 (A) (B) (C) (D) (E) 
Expenses Heads 
 
 
Estimated 
Expense 
UGC/AICTE 
Travel 
Grant 
applied for/ 
recd. 
Registration 
waiver from 
host body 
applied 
for/recd. 
Net 
Estimated 
Expenses      
(A-B-C) 
Approval 
Sought for, 
from the 
University 
1.Airfare 
(shortest route,   
economy class) 
     
2.Visa Charges      
3.Health & 
Accident 
Insurance 
     
4.Registration 
fees 
     
5.Conveyance 
residence-
airport-
residence 
     
6.Local 
Conveyance in 
the foreign 
country 
     
7. Lodging 
expenses 
     
8. Food, local 
conveyance and 
incidental 
expenses 
     
9. Any other (pl. 
specify) 
     
10. Total      
 
Note : It is mand atory to apply for travel grant scheme and registration waiver, and 
preferably to know the outcome of such applications, before applying to the 
University for financial approval.  If you have not so applied, please disclose 
the reasons for not doing so.

=== page 35 ===
35 
D. Bond  
 
 I hereby agree that in the event any financial assistance is granted to me, I shall, 
before collecting the amount, execute a bond as per the University Policy, for 
minimum period of service and/or return of the amount of financial assistance,  
in the event of my leaving the service of the University, for whatsoever reason, 
within two years from the date of return from the training program. 
 
E. Study Material to be University Property 
 
 I hereby agree and confirm that I shall provide one set of study material, issued 
for the training programme by its conductor, to the library of the University. 
 
 
F. Conducting the training programme for other faculty / students  
 
 I hereby confirm that I shall make a summary presentation of what I learnt at the 
training programme, to the faculty colleagues at the University, within a month 
of my return,  I further confirm that I shall conduct one or more full -fledged 
training programmes for faculty / students , if the Dean of my School or the Vice 
Chancellor so instructs. 
 
G. Settlement of Accounts  
 
 I hereby confirm and undertake that if I am allowed to undertake foreign travel 
for attending a training programme, with full or part financial assistance by the 
University, I shall submit the full account, with suppo rting, and with a travel 
report, within 10 working days of my return.  I also undertake to lead a 
discussion seminar within the same time frame. 
 
 
 
 
Date :                                                                               Signature : 
 
Place :   Applicant’s Name :

=== page 36 ===
36 
8.3. Form for expense statement and claim for foreign travel  
 
Foreign Travel Expense Statement 
 
Name of the Employee : Employee Code No.: 
  
School:  
  
Purpose of Visit :  
  
Itinerary :  (Give on a separate sheet, if necessary) 
Date Time From To Brief Description of Activity  
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
Expenditure Details (Give on a separate sheet, if necessary) 
 
Sr.No. Date Purpose/Particulars Amt Paid by Bills/Receipts 
attached?(Y/N) University Self 
       
       
       
       
       
Total Amount     
Break up of total amount :     
a. Directly spent by employer     
b. Incurred by employee against  
advance     
    received/from own sources 
    
Total Amount

=== page 37 ===
37 
 
Summary against each budget head 
(Amt. in Rs) 
 (A) (B) (C)= (A-B) (D) 
Expense Item Net Budget Actual 
Expense 
Variance Sl. No. ref. Of 
Expenditure 
details 
Air Fare     
Visa Charges     
Insurance     
Registration Fees     
Conv. Res-Airport-
Venue-foreign 
airport  
    
Lodging expenses     
Food, local 
Conveyance, 
incidental expenses 
    
Any other(specify)     
TOTAL     
 
Reasons for negative variance, if any (separately for each negative variance) 
 
(Amt. in Rs.) 
 
Total claim for expense incurred by employee against advance 
received / from own sources 
 
Balance amount claimed  
Advance received from employer  
 
The about is true account of expenses incurred for official purpose on foreign travel 
by me.  Tour report is enclosed. 
  Employee Signature: 
 
Approved for Rs. ______________ Passed for Rs.________________  
 
Head of Department Financial Controller 
Name: ________________________ Name: ______________________ 
Signature: _____________________ Signature: ___________________

=== page 38 ===
38 
 
ANNEXURE – III 
 
Rules for Consulting at NMIMS University  
Introduction  : 
 
Consulting enriches  / assignment  the quality of faculty instructions. It also helps 
them to initiate research and case development exercise. The best known professors 
in management both internationally and nationally are today valued by the 
corporate, principally because their interventions have benefited the corporates. 
 
NMIMS also has grown on the strength of such consulting interventions by its 
faculty. These rules have been framed to enable faculty take up these assignments 
and create/enhance their and University’s equity in corporate and non corporate 
sectors.  
 
1.     What constitutes consulting 
 
Any paid external assignment including teaching - a part or full course at a 
national or international institution will be considered as a consulting 
assignment. 
 
2.      Exemptions 
 
i) Royalty from books and monographs 
ii) Fees received from paper reviews for any journal or conference, 
honorarium received from publication of research papers. 
iii) Examinership at Doctoral level 
iv) Income from Guest Lectures  in other institutions 
v) Honorarium and prizes earned for professional accomplishment 
vi) Corporate / advisory / research board membership and hence sitting 
fees received on account of such membership 
vii) Board membership in the form of sitting fees / remuneration of 
independent directors 
viii) Income from MDPs upto Rs.20,000 per company programs. 
ix) Income from any work given by SVKM or its institutions. 
 
3.    Type of consulting assignments 
 
Following are the type of assignments that will qualify as consulting 
assignments. 
i) Training or custo mized management development programmes for 
corporates. 
ii) Project based assignments involving projects assigned by the client.

=== page 39 ===
39 
iii) Retainerships involving sustained involvement with the client on 
regular payment of fees. 
(A)  Institutional and Personal Consultancy : 
 
All assignments will be institutional in nature.  While individual 
faculty members are encouraged to aggressively seek, negotiate and 
finalize the assignment, the final contract will have to be between the 
School and the company. 
 
 
4.       Consultancy Time  
 
Generally faculty would be permitted to avail upto 52 days of consulting 
work in one financial year from 1 st April to 31st March.  If a faculty is entitled 
for a vacation, then maximum 40 days, excluding vacation period, can be 
utilized for this purpose.  A record of consultancy days needs to be submitted 
every month to the Dean of the School.  The number of consulting days to be 
permitted for the assignment will be decided by the Dean subject to the 
ceiling of 52 days in a year. 
 
5.      Financial arrangements 
 
For the purposes of working on the cost on the consulting assignment, the 
professional fee for the faculty time will be minimum Rs.25,000 per faculty 
per day.  There is no upper limit on faculty fees.  Further these rates may not 
be applicable to  consultancy assignments received from government, semi -
government or local government authorities.  All expenses will have to be 
recovered from the clients.  In case of training programmes where 
institutional facilities are used like MDP or classroom, the  rates for use of 
these facilities will be prescribed from time to time.  All catering expenses will 
be recovered from the clients on actual basis.  All travel, both within Mumbai 
and outside Mumbai, will have to be paid by the client.  Same is true for 
boarding and lodging expenses. 
 
Institutional overheads like cost on account of telephone, internet, secretarial 
assistance, charges for use of classrooms, payment to the support staff and 
other institutional overheads to the tune of 25%  or minimum of Rs. 10,000 per 
day whichever is higher of estimated cost for consultancy work will be 
deducted from the total receipts.  This will take care of the indirect cost.  The 
faculty NMIMS should be paid (in case of MDP’s or any other classroom 
training programmes) as per prescribed rates for visiting faculty.  This should 
be treated as the direct cost along with the extra remuneration to be paid. 
 
After providing for institutional overheads and the direct cost, surplus, if any, 
will be shared @ 70:30 between the conce rned faculty members and the 
School.  If consultancy work has been generally undertaken by more than one 
faculty, sharing of 70% surplus amount be shared by these faculty members

=== page 40 ===
40 
and the Coordinator, on the basis of the sharing decided a priori by the Dean .  
All billings will be done by the University Accounts Office. 
 
6.       Approval 
 
 All consulting assignments of faculty will require Dean’s prior 
approval. In case of assignments involving Dean, Pro -Vice Chancellor, 
Vice Chancellor, prior approval of Hon ’ble Chancellor will be required 
for both assignment and fees. 
 
 No consulting assignments will be taken which comes in conflict with 
class commitments or any other University commitments.  
 
 Also there should be no conflict of interest in the assignment bet ween 
the institution and the client. 
 
 All requests for approval have to be made in prescribed format.

=== page 41 ===
41 
SVKM’s NMIMS Deemed to be University 
CONSULTANCY FORMAT 
Date   : _______________ 
 
1. Name of the faculty  :_____________________    Designation : ________________ 
 
 
2. Name of the Company  : ____________________________________________ 
 
 
3. Contact Person  : _______________________Designation : __________ 
 
 
4. Contact details             : Tel.: ________________ Mobile: _______________ 
 
 
5. Topic of Consultancy  : _____________________________________________ 
 
 
6. Period    : From:__________________        To:_______________ 
 
 
7. Contract Amount   : Rs. _____________   
(with break up) 
 
Amount: Overhead  : Rs.  ______________ 
 
Expenditure:  
(i)  Study Material/MDP :   ______________ 
(ii) Travel      :   ______________ 
(iii) Other expenses     :   ______________ 
 
 
8. Names of faculty, if co-opted : ______________________________ 
 
 
9. Ratio of income to be  
distributed among the team   :  ______________________________ 
 
Approved by 
 
 
Dean        Vice Chancellor 
School:   
 
NOTE : Copy of the proposal to be enclosed.

=== page 42 ===
42 
 
         Annexure IV  
 
CALCULATION OF RESEARCH SCORE 
 
Particulars Engg./Scienc
es/Medical 
All Other 
discipline
s 
Research Activity Points Points 
Peer reviewed or UGC listed Journals 
(Impact factor to be determined as per 
Thomson Reuters list): 
Score Points per paper 
Research Papers 
in peer 
reviewed or 
UGC Listed 
Journals/ Ivy 
Cases (score for 
research papers 
to be 
augmented i.e. 
Score + Points 
per paper) also 
refer to the 
notes below 
Paper refereed journals 
without impact 
factor/OIC 
5 
08 per paper 10 per 
paper 
Paper with impact 
factor less than 
1/Category C 
10 
Paper with impact 
factor between 1 and 
2/IVY Cases 
15 
Paper with impact 
factor between 2 and 
5/Category B 
20 
Paper with impact 
factor between 5 and 10 25  
Paper with Category A 30 
Paper with impact 
factor more than 10 30  
Paper with Category A* 50 
a) Two authors: 70% of total value of publication for each other.       
b) More than two authors: 70% of total Value of Publication for the 
First/Principal/Corresponding author and 30% of total value of Publication 
for each of the joint holders.

=== page 43 ===
43 
Annexure V 
SVKM’s NMIMS Deemed to be University 
  
Application for Research/Patent Incentive 
 
 
Name of the Faculty member: 
School:   
Campus: 
Area of Specialization: 
Date of Joining: 
 
Part-I 
Academic Year: YYYY-YYYY                      Date of Publication: DD/MM/YY 
 
Select the option below: 
 
Scopus Indexed/Non Scopus Indexed: 
 
Mention Impact factor/Category of Publication: 
 
Name of the Journal: 
 
ISSN: 
 
National/International: 
 
Title of the Publication: 
 
Area of Specialization in which Publication is considered: 
 
Select the options below: 
O Single Authored O Co-Authored O More than two authors 
 
If More than two authors- 
O First author/Principal/Corresponding author O Joint author 
 
Name of the authors: 
 
        
Sr. 
No. 
   Publication and their Impact 
Factor  
Publicatio
n in 
ABDC 
Journals 
Amount     Select 
your  
   option 
here 
1. Journals with 
 an Impact factor > 7   
A* Rs.2,00,000/-

=== page 44 ===
44 
 
2. Journals with an Impact factor > 5 
< 7  
A Rs.1,00.000/-  
3. Journals with an Impact factor > 3 
< 5  
B    Rs.50,000/-  
4. Journals with an Impact factor >1 
< 3  
C    Rs.25,000/-  
5.  Scopus Indexed Journals  - Rs.10,000/-  
Note: Kindly attach all the documents for verification with the application. 
 
Part-II 
Academic Year: YYYY-YYYY                             
 
Filed for Patent and actively pursue it, following will be the assistance: 
Patent Amount 
National Patent Grant Rs. 50,000/- 
International Patent Grant Rs. 1,00,000/- 
Commercialisation of Patent 
(National/International) 
Royalty will be shared in 80:20 
ratio 
Patent Name: 
 
Patent Details:  
National/International: 
 
Note: Attach Policy Document/other supporting documents for verification of application 
 
-------------------------------------------For Approval--------------------------------------------------- 
Eligible for Incentive 
 Amount 
Total of Part I  
Total of Part II  
Grand Total  
 
Approved/Rejected (If Rejected, mention reason): 
 
Verified by:    
 
Date:          Name & Signature:  
 
Approved by Vice Chancellor/Pro Vice Chancellor: 
 
Date: 
 
Application to be forwarded to Accounts for payment.

=== page 45 ===
45 
Annexure VI 
 
SVKM’s NMIMS Deemed to be University 
 
Application for Research Proposal 
 
Name of the Faculty member: 
School:   
Campus: 
Area of Specialization: 
Date of Joining: 
 
Academic Year: YYYY-YYYY                           Date of Application: 
DD/MM/YY 
 
Name of the Research Project: 
 
 
Explain your Research Case in short: 
 
 
 
 
Discipline/Area of Specialisation in which Project is taken: 
 
Any assistance is required for the Research  for purpose of preparing research based 
document: Yes/No. If yes, share the profile details and financial implications 
involved. 
 
Duration of the Project(in years):   Start Date: 
 
Sponsored by or Supported by(if any): 
 
 
Amount of Registration fees in Double Blind Review Research Conference: 
 
-------------------------------------------For Approval--------------------------------------------------- 
Approved/Rejected (If Rejected, mention reason): 
 
Verified by:    
 
Date:          Name & Signature:  
   
Approved by Vice Chancellor/Pro Vice Chancellor: 
 
Date: 
Application to be forwarded to Accounts for payment.

=== page 46 ===
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING MENTIONED HERE IN THE 
RULES/POLICIES ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE AS MAY BE DECIDED BY THE 
BOARD OF MANAGEMENT FROM TIME TO TIME.