=== page 1 ===
SVKGMS  SVKM'S
NMIMS  Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies
HEHUNIVERSITY  Deemcd-to-beLNIVERSHY
STUDENT RESOURCE BOOK
(2024-25)
Part-
NMIMS  (Deemed-to-be)
UNIVERSITY

=== page 2 ===
Message from Vice-Chancellor 
  
Welcome, and Congratulations on joining NMIMS!  
 
You have joined an institution that has the legacy of developing some of the most successful professionals and industry 
leaders.  
  
NMIMS is ranked among India's top universities and awarded global and national accreditations at the highest level. 
Our School of Bus iness Management is AACSB accredited, and five of our Engineering programs are ABET 
Accredited. You have joined the University, which has a successful track record of growth. We believe in sustaining 
the quality of education through our assurance of the learning process and by offering a world-class learning experience. 
NMIMS strives toward excellence in all its  endeavors. NMIMS students and faculty have earned national and global 
recognition. Our research and industry partnership is comparable to the best in the world. 
  
The four pillars of NMIMS building blocks are: (a) knowledge creation that is relevant and applied, helping Society to 
know the unknowns, demonstrating leadership and meeting expectations in knowledge creation, and (b) enhancing 
teaching and learning through "Assurance of Learning" System, (c) making NMIMS known/recognized for its academic 
excellence and the most preferred institution of learning, and (d) aligning stakeholders and meeting their aspirations. 
NMIMS aims to work towards these building blocks through a culture of dialogue, collaboration, and mutual trust.  
 
The University's innovativeness is borne by many programs visualized in a value- driven manner. NMIMS has always 
believed in remaining relevant and, at the same time, engagin g in knowledge generation and dissemination. NMIMS 
faculty today is an eclectic mix of young and young at heart, having academic and industry experience, and those with 
national and foreign qualifications. With this mix of faculty, you will have the opportunity to learn from NMIMS's ethos 
to develop socially sensitive professionals and live in harmony with the environment.  
  
NMIMS has a facilitative administrative and academic system. The Dean or Director of the Schools or  Campus is the 
voice of NMIMS. There are appropriate channels and structures to respond to student grievances.  
  
The student resource book guides you on university rules and regulations and will help you navigate your journey here 
at the NMIMS. During your stay at NMIMS, we would like to ensure clarity and transparency in our communication. 
The Student Resource Book (SRB) has been divided into three parts. Part I comprises University information and rules 
and regulations that you would need to know. Part II has school-specific details for your effective and smooth interaction 
with the school, and Part III has annexures. Also listed are facilities provided by the institution. 
  
Please spend some time and go through this information carefully so that you do not miss any opportunity that NMIMS 
may have to offer you. The SRB contains a Student Undertaking page at the end of the document, which you are required 
to sign and submit to your course coordinator by the suggested date. 
   
We would also like your support to maintain and enhance the University's image and uphold its values. We value your 
feedback.  
  
 
Dr. Ramesh Bhat 
Vice Chancellor

=== page 3 ===
Content 
 
Sr. No. Details Page No. 
I PART – I (Rules and Regulations)  
1.  About these Guidelines  1 
2.  General Guidelines  1 
3.  Attendance rules for all schools  6 
4.  Academic Guidelines  8 
5.  Interdisciplinary Offerings  9 
6.  Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) 9 
7.  Examination Guidelines  10 
8.  Policy on Award / Prizes and Dean’s Director’s List  15 
9.  Guidelines for Scholarships 15 
10.  Guidelines for Admission Cancellation / Payment of Fees / Academic Break /Re-admission  / 
Submission of Documents / Admission Deferment 15 
11.  Library Rules and Regulations 19 
12.  Guidelines for the Use of Computing Facilities 20 
13.  Guidelines for using Student Portal 22 
14.  Feedback Mechanism   23 
15.  Mentoring Programme / Psychologist and a Counsellor 24 
16.  Rules for Participating in National/ International Level Contests 25 
17.  Guidelines for Convocation 25 
18.  Roles and Responsibility of Class Representative and Student Council   26 
19.  Interface with the Accounts Department 27 
20.  
University level - Ant-Ragging Committee /Women Grievance Redressal Cell/Internal Complaints 
Committee/University Student Grievance Redressal Cell / Caste Based Discrimination by 
SC/ST/OBC students /Ombudsman 
28 
21.  Safety Guide for Students on Floods, Fire and Earthquakes  30 
22.  List of Websites categories that are blocked 32 
23.  NMIMS Infoline 33 
24.  People you should know 34 
 
 
Annexures 
1. Application of Absence 
International Student Exchange Programme Forms 
2. Application form for NMIMS Students for Applying for Student Exchange Programme  
3. Application form – Exchange Students – Incoming  
4. Application form – NMIMS Exchange Students 
5. Student Exchange Programme – Undertaking 
6. Student Exchange Programme (Visa Application) 
Examination  
7. Application for availing the facility of a Scribe/Writer during Examinations due to 
Permanent /Temporary Physical Disability / Learning Disability 
Accounts  
8. Application for Duplicate Fee Receipt 
9. Application for Refund 
Admission 
10. Application for Migration Certificate 
Others 
11. Clearance Certificate 
12. Any Additional forms to be added by School 
13. Undertaking from students for HBS Cases & Articles 
14. Student undertaking with respect to the Student Guidelines 
35-55 
 
All rights reserved. No part of this document is reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical including photocopying, recording, or by information storage or retrieval 
system, without written permission to NMIMS. 
NMIMS or any of the persons involved in the preparation and distribution of this reading material expressly disclaim all and any contractu 2al or other form of liability to any person in respect of the 
manual and any consequences arising from its use by any person in reliance upon the whole or any part of its contents. The information contained in this document was obtained from sources believed 
to be reliable. NMIMS does not accept any responsibility for such information and states that the manual is of a general nature only.

=== page 4 ===
1 
 
Student Guidelines 
(With effect from June 2024) 
1 About these Guidelines: 
1.1 These guidelines provide norms for the daily functioning of the NMIMS and ensure  appropriate usage of infrastructure 
and effective academic delivery for students. 
1.2 This compilation of guidelines comes into effect from June 2024 onwards and supersedes all other guidelines in respect of 
matters therein. 
1.3 These guidelines are applicable for all schools & campus es under NMIMS Deemed–to–be University located across the 
country. 
1.4 This document of NMIMS is  student guidelines, rules and regulations. While efforts are  made to ensure uniformity  & 
consistency between these guidelines and the Rules &  Regulations of NMIMS. In the event of any dispute, the Students 
Resource Book will prevail.  
1.5 The management has the right to change the guidelines to meet the institutional objectives and the decision of the 
management will be binding on the students. 
1.6 NMIMS has the right to make any changes as it may deem fit in terms of the program content, name of the Degree / 
Diploma, duration, method of delivery, faculty, refund policy, evaluation norms, standard of passing, g uidelines, etc. In 
case of any dispute or differences about the program, the decision of the Vice -Chancellor of SVKM’S NMIMS will be 
final and binding on all the participants. 
1.7 Any dispute and/or litigation arising between student/s and University/college/school shall be subject to the jurisdiction of 
Mumbai Court only. 
 
2 General Guidelines: 
 
Code of Conduct:  
2.1 The cleanliness of the premises must be maintained by everyone in the NMIMS at all points in time. 
 
2.2 Only drinking water is allowed inside the classroom. Eatables are strictly prohibited inside the classroom. 
 
2.3 The use of cell phones on campus is not permitted. Any student found using a  cell phone on campus would be 
penalized as per the regulations in force from time to time. 
 
2.4 The students are requested to park their vehicles outside the premises  at the places notified by the MCGM. NMIMS 
shall not bear any responsibility of the students vehicles parked outside the premises.  
 
2.5 Any problem with regard to administrative facility, faculty, classrooms , etc., must be addressed  through the class 
representative who will take it up with the course coordinator. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the student 
may approach in writing to the Assistant Registrar /Dy.Registrar/ Dean/Directors of the school/ Registrar, NMIMS. 
 
2.6 The mode of Communication with students is via Student Portal / email /Notice Board. Students are advised to check 
the Student Portal / email /Notice Board at least once a day, and not rely on rumour or hearsay in any matter.  
 
2.7 In case of Lecture Cancellation,  the course coordinator will inform said changes to class representatives/ respective 
students through the Student Portal /email /Notice Board. Class representatives will not arrange any extra lectures, 
guest lectures, and lecture cancellations directly with the faculty on their own. 
 
2.8 Classrooms are fitted with LCD projectors / Smart Boards for the utility of the faculty and the student. In case a student 
requires an LCD / Smart Board for his/her presentation, he/she must make a prior booking through the co urse 
coordinator. Portable LCDs if required are allotted on a first come first serve basis.  
 
2.9 All students are provided with an Identity Card, which they are required, to wear mandatorily. Entry is strictly through 
Identity Card and will be monitored by the NMIMS authorities.  A penalty will be levied / action will be taken for this 
non-compliance. If the student misplaces the original ID-Card, a duplicate ID card be issued from the school by paying 
the prescribed fee. ID card is used for access control to NMIMS campus. 
 
2.10 Students should make use of flap barriers (wherever deployed and operational) to enter/exit school premises. 
Biometric Print plus ID card is a mandatory requirement at NMIMS.

=== page 5 ===
2 
 
2.11 Students must not use the ID card of any other student, in case it is noticed both the students shall be penalised.  
 
2.12 In case a student forgets to carry an ID card, they should approach security and complete the process to get the 
requested access. Any grievances related to ID Card should be raised to biometricregistration@svkm.ac.in. 
 
2.13 Firedrill are demonstrated to all the students and hence students are requested to keep safety procedures in mind at all 
times. Fire extinguishe rs are placed in strategic areas to ensure the safety and welfare of everyone at NMIMS. 
Tampering with fire extinguishers or any part of the fire alarm system is a serious offense and shall attract punishment. 
 
2.14 Any person resorting to physical fights will amount to ragging and appropriate legal action will be viewed accordingly 
by disciplinary committee. 
 
2.15 If any student during the tenure of studentship has a police case in his/ her name, he/she is liable for appropriate action 
by management/disciplinary committee  as per the rules and regulations in force from time to time. 
 
2.16 Any comments posted in social media, or print attempting to bring disrepute and defame the University shall be treated 
very seriously and shall attract severe and strict disciplinary action. 
 
2.17 NMIMS has a zero-tolerance policy towards misbehaviour, discrimination of gender sensitivity, racial discrimination, 
indulgence into unethical practices including possession and consumption of drugs, alcoholic drinks, harassment, 
violence, non-obedience, non-compliance and any action that will bring disrepute /defame to the University,  etc. by 
any student. University shall take strict legal action against the defaulters in accordance with the rules & regulations 
in force from time to time.  
 
2.18 University will reserve the right to take action appropriately against all the defaulters including outsiders who shall be 
part of the  above illegal act/s. 
 
2.19 Photography, filming, videotaping and audio -taping in the Campus premises/ University  are strictly prohibited. 
Student found guilty of the said act will be dealt appropriately as per the rules and regulations  of the University

=== page 6 ===
3 
 
CODE OF CONDUCT LINE OF ACTION  
Alcohol and Other Drugs 
The unlawful possession, use, purchase or distribution of alcohol,  illicit 
drugs, controlled substances (including stimulants, depressants, narcotics, 
or hallucinogenic drugs) or paraphernalia  o r the misuse of prescription 
drugs including sharing, procuring, buying  & selling or using differently 
from the prescribed use or by someone other than the person for whom it 
was prescribed. 
 
 
a. With immediate effect, suspension from 
college if the student is not able to 
justify/prove the reasonable ground for 
carrying or possessing the said drugs. 
b. Suspension from college pending an enquiry. 
c. If found guilty, concern student shall be 
punished in accordance with the rules and 
regulations which may include r ustication 
from the school / campus / hostel. 
d. Incase the student is involved and found guilty 
in selling the drugs,  approporiate legal action 
under Narcotic Drugs Act 1985 will be taken. 
Assault, Endangerment or Infliction of Physical Harm 
Physical restraint, assault or any other act of violence or use of  physical 
force against any member /staff/security of the campus or any act that 
threatens the use of physical force. 
 
Upon written complaint with immediate effect -
Suspension from attending college pending an 
enquiry. 
Banners, Chalking and Posters 
Defacing of Campus property by means of Banners,  Chalking, Posters, 
etc.. 
 
Severe disciplinary action will be taken. 
Bullying, Intimidation, and Stalking 
Bullying. Bullying includes any electronic, written, verbal  or physical 
act/body, gesture  or a series of acts of physical, social or emotional 
domination that is intended to cause physical or substantial mental and 
emotional harm to another person or group. 
Intimidation. Intimidation is any body, gesture, verbal, written, or 
electronic threats  of violence or other threatening behaviour directed 
towards another person or group that reasonably leads the person(s) in the 
group to fear for their physical well-being. 
Stalking. Stalking is engaging in a course of conduct, repeated acts or 
communication toward s another person, including the unauthorized 
following, which demonstrate s either an intent to put another person in 
fear of bodily injury or cause the person substantial mental and emotional 
distress. 
 
 
a. Upon written complaint with immediate effect - 
Suspension from attending college  pending 
enquiry.  
 
b. Any person resorting to such an act will amount 
to ragging and strict appropriate legal action 
will be taken.  
 
Discrimination, Including Harassment, Based On a Protected Class 
Discrimination, including harassment, based on an individual’s sex, race, 
colour, age, religion, national or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, gender 
identity or expression, pregnancy, marital status, medical condition, 
veteran status, disability or any other legally protected classification. 
 
 
a. Upon written complaint with immediate effect  
Suspension from attending college pending 
enquiry. 
 
b. If found guilty , shall be punished in accordance 
with the rules and regulations which may 
include rustication from the school / campus / 
hostel.

=== page 7 ===
4 
 
CODE OF CONDUCT LINE OF ACTION  
Disorderly Conduct 
Excessive noise, which interferes with classes, school offices or other 
activities; Unauthorized entry into an area or a closed meeting. 
1 Conduct that restricts or prevents faculty, staff or student 
employees from performing their duties, including interruption of 
meetings, classes or events; 
2 Any other action(s) that result in unreasonable interference with 
the learning/working environment or the rights of others. 
 
 
 
a. Warning for first default. 
 
b.  If dafult continued/repeated defaulter students 
shall be abstained from attending  for the 
effective lecture / event. 
 
False Representation 
Provide false information or make a misrepresentation to any school 
office, forgery, alteration, or unauthorized possession or use of school 
documents, records, or instruments of identification, forged or fraudulent 
communications (paper or electronic mail). 
 
a. Upon knowledge of false representation the 
student shall be suspended with immedi ate 
effect from attending college  pending enquiry. 
 
b. If found guilty in the enquiry, shall be punished 
in accordance with the rules and regulations 
which may include rustication from the school / 
campus / hostel. 
Fire Safety 
Tampering, interference, misuse, causing damage and/or destruction of 
fire safety and fire prevention equipment 
 
Severe disciplinary action will be taken. 
Theft, Vandalism, or Property Damage 
Theft, negligent, intentional, or accidental damage to personal or 
University / SVKM property/ies 
a. Suspension from attending college pending 
enquiry. 
 
b. Rustication from the school / campus / hostel. 
Unauthorized Entry or Access / Unauthorized Use of school Facilities 
or Services 
Unauthorized entry into or presence within enclosed NMIMS / SVKM  
buildings or areas, construction sites, and student rooms or offices, even 
when unlocked, is prohibited.  
 
 
a. Upon knowledge of  the same concern 
student/s shall be suspended with immediate 
effect from attending college pending enquiry. 
 
b. If found guilty in the enquiry, concern student 
shall be punished in accordance with the rules 
and regulations which may include rustication 
from the school / campus / hostel 
Weapons and Fireworks 
Possession or use of firearms including rifles, shotguns, handguns, air 
guns, and gas -powered guns and all ammunition or hand -loading 
equipment, knives etc. 
Possession or use of  fireworks, dangerous devices, chemicals, or 
explosives within the premises of NMIMS / SVKM. 
 
a. Upon knowledge of  the same, concern 
student/s will be suspended with immediate 
effect  from attending college pending enquiry. 
 
b. If found guilty in the enquiry, concern student 
shall be punished in accordance with the rules 
and regulations which may include rustication 
from the school / campus / hostel.

=== page 8 ===
5 
 
2.20 Discipline Norms and Penalty: 
2.20.1 A disciplinary committee constituted in each school, to look into all cases of indiscipline related to students. 
The committee comprises the Chairperson / Head of the Department, one faculty member and one staff 
member. The committee will hear each case and recommend action to the Dean and  then to the Vice 
Chancellor of the University. On approval by the Vice Chancellor, action will be initiated by the school. 
For names of committee members at the school level, refer to part II of SRB. 
2.20.2 The woman Grievance Redressal committee constituted in each school comprises the Chairperson / Head 
of the department, one lady  member (from faculty or staff), and two more members of the school. The 
committee will address all related issues and recommend action to the Dean and the University. On 
approval by the Vice Chancellor , appropriate action will be initiated by the school. For names of 
committee members at the school level, refer to part II of SRB. 
2.20.3 NMIMS campus including premises of all schools/colleges and hostels are earmarked  as non-smoking 
zones. Possession and Consumption of alcoholic beverages / toxic materials/cigrattes and students present 
in the campus under the influence of alcohol/ toxic material / addictive material is a serious offens e. Any 
student found consuming of any objectionable material ( alcohol, illicit drugs, controlled substances 
including stimulants, depressants, narcotics, or hallucinogenic drugs)  will be rusticated from the hostel, 
school and the campus with immediate effect  
2.20.4 Impersonation will also lead to suspension pending the enquiry and upon found guilty to be rusticated with 
immediate effect an d subsequent deletion of the student’s name from the roll of the University after 
enquiry. 
2.20.5 Students indulging in Sexual Harassment will also be liable to  strict disciplinary action as per University 
norms. Shall be suspended with immediate effect pending the enquiry. Upon found guilty the student shall 
be rusticated .  
2.20.6 In all matters of indiscipline and indecent behaviour , Chancellor of the University will be the appellate 
authority. Ombudsman is appointed by the University who would look into such cases re ferred by 
Chancellor and their decision is final and binding. Violations if any on the part of the students will be dealt 
with as per the existing rules, regulations and provisions.  Depending on the gravity of the Act and outcome 
of the enquiry, the student can be rusticated from the school. NMIMS will not be held responsible for any 
actions which will be initiated by the regulatory authority like police, corporation etc. 
 
2.21 Dress Code:  
NMIMS’s visitors include corporate leaders and international visitors. For this purpose, it becomes essential to adhere to 
broad guidelines for dress and appearance. 
Students are required to be dressed decently Tank tops, Midriff tops, Belly-tops, Sweatshirts, Spaghetti-strap dresses, Half 
pants, Shorts, Short skirts, Sweatpants, Exercise pants, Ripped or torn jeans and bathroom slippers, Flip -flops are not 
allowed). 
For all functions of the School / University, including Guest lectures, seminars and conferences, attendance is mandatory 
and students are required to dress in formals, Institute blazer, Tie/ Cravat, and Lapel Pin. 
 
 
 
2.22 Punctuality 
2.22.1 Classes will begin on time. Late coming is not permitted. Faculty have the authority to restrict latecomers to enter 
the classroom. 
2.22.2 Students are required to be present for all events of school/ NMIMS University, including the Convocation, Sports 
Day, Republic Day, Independence Day, Guest lectures, Compulsory workshops, CEO Series, and other events as 
intimated on the Student Portal / N otice board/ email. A record of attendance will be kept. The school/NMIMS 
reserves the right to declare compulsory attendance for any event on or off campus. Absenteeism i n events for 
which attendance is compulsory will be taken seriously and will be communicated / displayed on the Student 
Portal / N otice Board/ email from time to time and / or remark on the transcript or any other decision by the 
management. 
2.22.3 Students are required to be in the city on all days of the trimester/semester. If they are leaving the city for personal 
or institutional work, they are required to obtain prior permission from the HOD/Director/Dean. This applies even 
to those students who are representing the NMIMS for social, cultural and co -curricular events. 
2.22.4 Students are requested to honour deadlines for submissions of projects, reports, assignments, forms and any other 
submission to the school /University or the faculty concerned. Students cannot  approach faculty members and 
others to change or extend deadlines.

=== page 9 ===
6 
 
 
3.0 Attendance and leave of absence guidelines for all students: 
3.1 Attendance Guidelines  
3.1.1 A student is required to monitor his /her own attendance  regularly.  All doubts regarding attendance should be 
clarified with the concerned faculty within the appropriate time (at the end of each class during recess or  at the 
end of class hours of the day) . If the student is marked absent even when present, he/she should immediately 
inform the concerned faculty by submitting a written application  informing of his/her presence and if required to 
justify his/her stand. 
3.1.2 Attendance reports of all the students would be displayed on the notice board / Student Portal on a monthly basis. 
If a student has any issue or finds any discrepancy in his/her attendance, he/she should inform the office in writing 
regarding the same within 3 days of the publication of the attendance record. No claim shall be entertained under 
any circumstances after that. No changes will be permitted once attendance reports are finalized. 
3.1.3 For all absences, prior intimation through a prescribed application form is to be given to Course Coordinator. In 
emergent situations, intimation must be given to Course Coordinator preferably by email within 24 hours of the 
absence. Any absence without written intimation will be treated as unapproved and will be reflected in the records 
as such. 
3.1.4 It is the sole responsibility of the student to confirm his / her email Id and parent 's email Id with the school 
academic office. 
3.1.5 Parents of the students shall be intimated with the attendance record of their ward if the student has less than 80% 
attendance monthly through email/SMS. Students have to notify the office in case of a change of any contact 
information of parents. Parents may be called to the school to discuss the consequences of remaining absent. 
3.1.6 Students must refrain from approaching the visiting and full -time faculty members for attendance related issues 
and exemptions. They must apply to the concerned coordinator for necessary approvals. 
3.1.7 If the student remains absent due to any medical issues he / she  should submit a medical certificate along with a 
copy of all the medical reports to the office within 3 days of resuming  the classes after medical leave. No 
certificate shall be entertained under any circumstances thereafter. 
3.1.8 Final attendance of the Trimester/Semester will be published on Student Portal / Notice board after the end of the 
session. If the student has any issues regarding attendance will notify the Dean/Director of campus in wri ting.  
Dean/Director will ensure data is factual and act accordingly.

=== page 10 ===
7 
 
3.2 Attendance rules for all schools  
 
To ensure satisfactory attendance and engagement, 100% attendance in all subjects/courses is expected. However, exceptions 
can be made for valid medical reasons, personal reasons, and participation in extra -curricular and co -curricular activities, 
placement activities, institutional work, and other approved activities. A relaxation of up to 20% absence may be granted in such 
cases. 
 
3.2.1 Eligibility for Examinations:  
 
Students who have maintained 80% or higher attendance in individual courses during a trimester/semester are eligible to 
appear for the respective trimester/semester-end examinations. 
 
Attendance is considered from the date of commencement of each semester/trimester. 
 
In case of any delay in the admission process of any particular student/ lateral admission case, attendance will be considered 
from the date of such admission. 
 
3.2.2 Exceptional Cases: 
 
In exceptional circumstances where students have an aggregate attendance less than 80% but between 70% and 80% in 
individual courses, the Dean/Director of the respective School will assess each case separately based on documents submitted 
by such students. A personal hearing at the School level will be conducted to evaluate their reasons for attendance shortfall. 
Following the hearing, the Dean/Director may grant an exemption of up to 10% on a case -by case basis, allowing these 
students to reach the minimum 80% attendance  requirement. If approved, such students will be eligible to take the regular 
term-end examination, contingent upon the attendance exemption granted by the Dean of the respective School/Director of 
the individual campus. Such students will have to give an undertaking that they will comply with the attendance norms and, 
if found defaulting again, will be liable for appropriate action. 
 
The decision taken by the University will be final and binding upon everyone.  
 
Attendance requirements are summarised hereunder: 
 
100% Attendance in each subject is expected. 
 
Attendance% 
(In Individual 
Courses) 
Remarks 
80% and above  
in individual courses 
Eligible to appear for Trimester/Semester End Examinations. 
Between 70% to 80% 
in individual courses 
The Dean/Director can consider exemption up to 10% on a case-by-case basis after giving 
an individual hearing. Such students will be eligible to appear for regular Term End 
Examination, subject to the approval of exemption from attendance from the Dean / 
Director of the respective School / Campus. 
Below 70 % in the individual 
courses. 
Students will be required to take re-admission. Students can opt 
i) re-admission in the same Semester/Trimester 
OR ii) re-admission in the full year of the program in the subsequent academic year

=== page 11 ===
8 
 
4. Academic Guidelines 
 
4.1  Credit Structure 
Credit structure is defined in terms of contact hours assigned for various academic components of a program. This includes 
classroom lectures, tutorials, practical sessions, projects, seminars, lab work, group work and any other academic activity 
for which contact hours are assigned in the curriculum. The details are as follows: 
 
Trimester Pattern: For trimester pattern programs the credit specifications are as follows: 
Details Credit Equivalence in hours in  
10 weeks of Trimester 
Theory Courses 1 credit 10 hrs. 
Lab/Tutorial/Group/Presentation work 1 credit 20 hrs. 
Seminar  
(subject to schedule throughout trimester)    1 credit 20 hrs. 
Project work 1 credit 20 hrs. 
Internship 1 credit 40 hrs.  
Research paper/ dissertation 1 credit 20 hrs. 
 
Semester Pattern: For Semester pattern programs the credit specifications are as follows:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Workshop-based activities: Courses involving workshop- based activities require the engagement of students in hands -
on activities related to work/vocation or professional practice. Every student is engaged in performing a skill-based activity 
related to specific learning outcome(s).  
 
# Community Engagement and Service: The Curricular component will involve activities that would expose students to 
the socio-economic issues in society so that the theoretical learnings can be supplemented by actual life experiences to 
generate solutions to real-life problems. 30 hrs of contact time per credit in a semester along with 15 hrs of activities such 
as preparation for community engagement and service, preparation of reports, etc., and independent reading and study. 
Thus, the total learner engaged time would be 180 hours for a 4-credit course. 
 
4.2 Internal Evaluation: The broad components of evaluation for any course/subject may be as  indicated below. The total 
marks for each course with a maximum that can be assigned for each component will be as per the specific requirements 
of school.  
   
4.2.1 Mid-Term Test  / Lab Work / Term Work 
4.2.2 Class participation/ Viva / presentation / Project work  
4.2.3 Quiz / Assignments / Case Study / Group Discussion 
 
4.3 Every course should  have at least 3 -4 evaluation components. The components of ICA for respective subject s should be 
spelled out at the start of the trimester / semester. The approximate time of conduct of these individual components needs 
to be spread across the full trimester / semester. 
 
4.4 It is the sole responsibility of the student to bring to notice any discrepancy in internal marks as soon as it is shared with 
them. Any changes in submitted ICA marks (after the respective teacher submitted the Dean/Director through HOD / Area 
chairperson) needs to have special permission and approval from the Dean/Director of the School/Campus.       
Kindly refer to Part II for school specific criteria, if any. 
 
Details Credit Equivalence in Hours in  
15 weeks of Semester 
Theory Courses          1 credit 15 hrs. 
Laboratory Course / Studio activities 1 credit 30 hrs. 
Tutorial Courses  
(Applicable for Technical Schools only) 1 credit 15 hrs. 
Workshop-based activities * 1 credit 30 hrs. 
Seminar / Group Discussion 
(Subject to schedule throughout the semester) 1 credit 15 hrs. 
Project work & Dissertation 1 credit 30 hrs. 
Internship (Max of six credits per semester) 1 credit 30 hrs. per week 
Field-based Learning/Practices / Projects  1 credit 30 hrs. 
Community Engagement and Service # 1 credit 30 hrs.

=== page 12 ===
9 
 
4.5 Term End  examination is a compulsory component. The mode of the Term End Examination will depend  on Course 
Learning Outcomes. 
 
4.6 Duration of examination  
4.6.1 Minimum duration of Mid -Term Examinations: 1 hr. 
4.6.2 Minimum duration of End-Term Examinations: 2 hrs. 
4.6.3 Examination duration can also be more than the above specified time as defined by respective schools .  
 
4.7 The internal evaluation marks once shared with the students and finalized cannot be changed subsequently. 
 
4.8 For all the programs, the weightage for each component will be specified by the Faculty and will form an integral part of 
the course outline  ( as per specific requirement s of school/program). The Faculty has the flexibility to formulate and 
implement an evaluation system with weightage specified in course outline.  While approving the courses, the HOD/Area-
in-charge and the Dean/Director/ Associate Dean will ensure that the evaluation components and weightage points assigned 
to each component are fair. Such evaluation components should be announced to students before the commencement of 
course delivery. 
4.9 For grading purpose, the weightage mentioned by the  faculty in the course outline will be applied for each component of 
evaluation irrespective of the marks assigned to the said component for the examination.  
4.10 The minimum 15 number of students to offer an elective course/s on the basis of the total number of students registered in 
that particular elective courses. 
 
4.11 Project Guidelines: 
4.11.1 From time to time Faculty may assign projects to students in their courses. 
4.11.2 After submission, Faculty will also carry out checks of these reports to ensure integrity using software, which 
can check documents within the batch, across the batch, across past years, the worldwide web, etc. Similarity 
index / plagiarism is a serious offense, which is unethical and illegal. If a student is found guilty (intentionally 
or unintentionally), it will be considered misconduct in terms of NMIMS policies and will be dealt with as per 
the rules of NMIMS.  
4.11.3 All policies regarding confidentiality and discipline need to be adhered to by the student. 
For more details on Academic / Project guidelines, refer Part II for school specific inputs. 
 
 
5.  Interdisciplinary Offerings (Applicable for Mumbai campus only): –  
 
The interdisciplinary approach of selection of courses across different streams enables students to get knowledge of other 
domains. It is applicable for a Master’s level program or final year of 4/5 years’ programs. The interdisciplinary courses will 
be offered in two sessions as Fall Session (II week of July – III week of Nov) and Winter Session (I week of January 
– III week of March). The students from all schools are allowed to choose a maximum of 2 courses, 1 course from the fall 
session and 1 course from the winter session. Students may opt for the  course from the bouquet of courses offered as an 
additional credit course or in lieu of any courses offered by the home school. The details of the courses offered and registration 
/date will be intimated to the students by the Home school (The students admitted to this school). The students have to register 
through the Students portal only.   
 
 
6. CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM (CBCS) (Applicable for Mumbai campus only): - 
 
The CBCS offering is a concept, which is in line with the international academic system.  Students may opt for the course 
from the bouquet of courses offered in CBCS in lieu of a course/s dropped (as defined in their school’s course structure) or 
take the courses offered by their Schools. The students are also allowed to choose CBCS courses as an additional subject for 
extra credits as a credit course or audit course. The CBCS offerings of courses will  be opted from a UG Program to a UG 
program and PG Program to PG Program across all schools where the grading system is the same. The UG students of 1 st 
year and PG students of Term I of 1 st year are not eligible to opt CBCS courses. Students studying in the school where the 
teaching/exam scheme is governed by a statutory body can take only extra credit courses.  
 
Note: For any academic grievance, student may write on grievance.academic@nmims.edu .

=== page 13 ===
10 
 
7. Examination Guidelines:  
Any breach of the following requirements relating to examinations and assessments, whether committed intentionally or 
unintentionally may be regarded as "misconduct", and would be dealt with, under the Disciplinary procedure of NMI MS. 
Severe penalty would be imposed on the students who are found to be involved in the adoption of unfair means in the 
examinations. 
 
7.1 Discipline in the Examination Hall 
7.1.1 Students must know their Roll Number and Student No. and carry their ID card during exams. 
7.1.2 Students who are eligible to write the term end examination/re-examination should be present in the Examination Hall at 
least 30 minutes before the scheduled time of the commencement of the examination. All the students, who arrive in the 
examination hall after the scheduled time of the commencement, will not be permitted to appear for that examination. 
In exceptional circumstances, the student will be required to seek written approval from the Dean/Director of the 
respective school / Campus or person nominated by the Dean/Director to allow to appear at the examination. Students 
who report late to the examination would be permitted to appear at the examination in exceptional circumstances only 
after they produce a written approval from the said authorities on application to be made by the student. Such a student 
who has reported late will not be eligible for benefit of extra time due to late arrival as well as the loss of time in getting 
approval from the Dean of the school in such a case. 
7.1.3 Students are not permitted to enter the examination hall after half an hour of the commencement of the examination. 
Students are not permitted to leave the examination hall until half an hour after the start of the session or during the  last 
ten minutes of the session. 
7.1.4 Students, who are not in their seats by the time notified, will not, be permitted to appear for the examination.  
7.1.5 Students should ensure that all their bags and other personal belongings are deposited in the designated area usually near 
the Supervisor’s table or outside the examination hall, at their own risk. NMIMS will not be responsible for the safety 
and security of the same. 
7.1.6 A student, who fails to attend an examination at the time and place published in the timetable, will be have an ‘Absent’ 
remark in the grade sheet. Opportunity for re-examination will be given according to the rules and regulations. 
7.1.7 Students should occupy their respective seats as per the seating plan displayed on notice board/door plan.  
7.1.8 Students are required to have and keep ready their Identity Cards issued by SVKM’s NMIMS and they must produce 
these same for verification by the room supervisor during the examination. Students not having the said identity card 
with them during the examination may be denied permission to appear for the examination subject to approval from the 
Dean/Director of the college. 
7.1.9 Every student present must sign against his / her Student number on the attendance sheet provided by the Room 
Supervisor. 
7.1.10 Students should specifically go through the instructions given on the top of the question paper and on the front page of 
the answer book. They are of utmost importance. 
7.1.11 On the front page of the answer book the students should write only the name of the program, 
specialization/stream if any, trimester/semester details and course / subject for which examination is being held, 
number of supplementary sheets attached to the main answer book. Any extra writing on the front page or 
anywhere in the answer book will be treated as act of unfair means and will be dealt as per rules. 
7.1.12 QUERY REGARDING QUESTIONS IN THE EXAMINATION QUESTION PAPER : If a student has any query 
as regards to the contents of the question paper, he should bring the same to the notice of the examination hall supervisor 
without disturbing others in the examination hall. 
7.1.13 Students are forbidden to (i) bring any books, notes, scribbling papers, mobile phones, smart watch, earbuds, calculators, 
laptop, Bluetooth devices or any other similar devices/things unless specifically permitted. Any such material found in 
possession of the student will be confisc ated University reserves the right to keep such material in its custody till 
the time investigation into alleged violation of rule/malpractice is completed. (ii) smoke in the examination hall, (iii) 
bring eatables/ drinks in the examination hall (iv) speak or communicate in any manner to any other student, while the 
examination is in progress, and (v) take with them any answer -book, written or blank, while leaving the examination 
hall. All Such acts amount to adoption of unfair means by the student/s concerned and strict action will be taken against 
them. The supervisors/ authorized persons are authorized to frisk the students , needless to mention that the girl student 
shall be frisked by the lady supervisor.  
7.1.14 Any method to bribe the examiner/s by attaching currency notes or letters or making an appeal inside the answer book 
or by any other means of communication is strictly prohibited and will result in serious action being taken by the 
University. 
7.1.15 The answer books of the term -end examinations are Bar coded / QR coded and therefore, students should not write 
his/her name, Roll No., Student No. etc. anywhere in the answer -book and / or reveal his / her identity in any form in 
the answers written by him / her or anywhere in the answer book. Writing these detail s or putting signature amounts to 
revelation of identity. Use of religious invocation or any writing that is not relevant to the answers anywhere in the 
answer-books will be treated as attempt to reveal identity, and will be treated as an act of adoption o f unfair means. 
7.1.16 While underlining of answers for focusing attention is permitted, use of varied inks, except for illustrations and figures 
must be avoided. DO NOT use any symbol like encircling the question or using colour arrows for ‘P.T.O’. These will 
all be considered as attempts to readily identify the specific answer-book. 
7.1.17 Students should neither tear any sheet/s from the answer -book provided nor shall attach unauthorized additional sheets

=== page 14 ===
11 
 
to the same. All answer-books / supplementary sheets whether written or blank should be returned to the room supervisor. 
Carrying the answer book / any part of the answer book out of the examination hall will be treated as against rules and 
appropriate action will be taken against such candidate/s. 
7.1.18 Students should not write anything on the question -paper, unless there is any typographical error/ change to be carried 
on the question paper on supervisor’s  instructions. 
7.1.19 Exchange of stationery, writing material, mathematical instruments, question paper etc. is strictly prohibited and will 
attract penalty. 
7.1.20 If students want anything, they should approach the Room Supervisor without disturbing other students. However, they 
should not leave the examination hall on any account, without surrendering his/her answer book.  
7.1.21 Students will not be allowed to leave the examination hall during the examination and especially during the last ten 
minutes. They should not leave their seats until answer-books from all students are collected by the Room Supervisor. 
7.1.22 A student who disobeys any instructions issued by the Invigilator’s / Room Supervisor or who is guilty of rude or 
disobedient behaviour is liable for disciplinary action to be taken against him / her by the University.  
7.1.23 Students suspected to be guilty of any of the aforesaid acts wil l be allowed to write their examination only after 
giving an undertaking in writing that the decision of the University in respect of the reported act of unfair means 
will be binding on them. 
 
7.2 Guidelines for Appointment and Availing facility of Scribe for the physically challenged (permanent or temporary 
disability) students during examinations conducted by NMIMS 
7.2.1 A student who may have a permanent or temporary physical disability may apply to NMIMS for appointing a 
scribe for the examinations.  
7.2.2 The student should submit an application for the purpose along -with ‘medical certificate’ from ‘Registered 
Medical Practitioner’ to that effect (Annexure 7) with rubber stamp of the Registered Medical Practitioner on the 
certificate well in advance.  
 
7.3 In the following cases of students, the medical certificate of only Government Authorized Agencies would be accepted for 
Mumbai Campus namely:  
a) Hearing Impaired Students: Ali Yavar Jung National Institute for the Hearing Handicapped.  
b) Physically Challenged Students: All India Institute of Rehabilitation of Physically Handicapped  
7.3.1 As regards the student from other campuses, the Government Authorized Agencies from those cities would be 
accepted. 
7.3.2 The scribe/ writer should be arranged by the student himself/herself well in advance i.e. at least one week before 
the examination and inform to the examination office of the University. The university will make arrangement 
alternatively if possible. 
7.3.3 The scribe should be one grade junior in academic qualification than the student if from the same stream.  
7.3.4 Since the student will be helped by a scribe, extra time of 10 minutes per hour will be allowed to such students. 
E.g. for the examination of two hours, 20 minutes extra time will be allowed.   
7.3.5 The Examination in Charge of the center will have powers to resolve issues, if any, in this regard. She/he will be 
authorized to make/ accept any last minute changes of scribe under exigencies.  
7.3.6 The said student will sit in a separate room under supervision.  
 
7.4 Facilities relating to examinations for the students having Learning Disability (Dyslexia, Dysgraphia and Dyscalculia) 
for the purpose of examinations: 
7.4.1 At the time of all written examinations, all L.D. students would be given permission to use a writer. I n such a 
case, the student concerned should submit application in writing along with all the necessary documents well 
before the commencement of the first examination. Also such students would get 25% additional time for writing 
the examination. 
7.4.2 These students would be given concession for not attempting the questions of drawing figures, maps, Draft, etc. 
where necessary in the written exams 
7.4.3 Concession will be given for mistakes in spelling or mathematical calculations/graphs.  
7.4.4 L.D students who have failed to pass a subject/s will be eligible for grace marks up to 3 per cent of the aggregate 
marks of the subjects in which he/she has appeared. These grace marks would be for one or more subjects.  
7.4.5 In case of L.D students, the medical certificate of only Government Authorized Agencies would be accepted. For 
Mumbai campus medical certificate from Sion Hospital / Nair Hospital only would be accepted.  
7.4.6 The said medical certificate must be produced at the beginning of the academic year to the admission dept. 
Retrospective benefit will not be given to any student in case certificate is submitted after declaration of results.  
 
7.5 Rules as regards cases of adoption of Unfair means by the candidates during the University examination are as under:  
 
7.5.1 If during the course of an examination, any candidate is found resorting to any of the following acts, he/she shall 
be deemed to have adopted unfair means at the examination. The adoption of unfair means by the candidates during 
the examinations is treated  seriously and appropriate penalties are imposed after following the University’s rules 
and regulations and principles of natural justice.

=== page 15 ===
12 
 
7.5.2 The broad categories of Unfair Means resorted to by students of the University Examinations and the Quantum of 
Punishment for each category thereof: - 
 
Sr. 
No. Nature of Unfair Means adopted Quantum of punishment 
1 Possession / Actual copying from the material. Annulment of the performance of the student at the University 
Examination in full. * 
 Possession of another student’s answer book or 
supplementary sheet. 
Exclusion of both the students from concerned University 
Examinations for one additional examination.* 
3 
Possession of another student’s answer book or 
supplementary sheet and Actual evidence copying from 
that 
Exclusion of both the students from concerned University 
Examination for three additional examinations. * 
4 Mutual/ Mass copying. Exclusion of all the students from concerned University 
Examination for two additional examinations. * 
5 Smuggling in or smuggling out of answer books as 
copying material. 
Exclusion of the student from concerned University 
Examination for three additional examinations. * 
6 Smuggling in of answer books based on the question paper 
set at the examination. 
Exclusion of the student from concerned University 
Examination for four additional examinations. * 
7 Smuggling in written answer book as copying material 
and forging the signature of supervisor. Student concerned to be rusticated from University. 
8 Attempt to forge the signature of the supervisor on the 
answer book or supplementary sheet. Student concerned to be rusticated from University. 
9 
Interfering with or counterfeiting of University seal or 
answer books or office stationery used in the examination 
with the intention of misleading the authorities. 
Student concerned to be rusticated from University. 
10 Answer book or supplementary sheet written outside the 
examination hall or any other insertion in the answer book. Student concerned to be rusticated from University. 
11 
Insertion of currency notes/ bribing or attempt to bribe any 
of the person connected with the conduct of the 
examination. 
Student concerned to be rusticated from University. 
12 
Using obscene language/ violent threats inside the 
examination hall by a student at the University 
examination to room supervisor/ any other authority. 
Student concerned to be rusticated from University. 
13 Impersonation for a student or impersonation by a student 
in University or other examinations. Student concerned to be rusticated from University. 
14 
Revealing the identity in any form (Name, Roll No, G.R. 
No., religious invocation etc. in the main answer book and/ 
or supplementary sheet). 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the University 
Examination in the subject concerned during the examination 
of which the identity was revealed. 
15 Found something written on the body or on the clothes 
while in the examination. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the University 
Examination in full. 
16 
Making an appeal to the examiner/ any person connected 
with the conduct of examination by using any mode of 
communication. 
Annulment of the performance of the student at the University 
Examination for the subject during the examination of which 
student made an appeal. 
*(Note: The Term “Annulment of Performance in full" includes per formance of the student at the Theory /Computer based 
exam/ Viva/ Jury /Practical examination, but does not include performance at internal continuous assessment / Term work, 
project work with its term work & project submission.)  
 
7.5.3 Students should note that material found with him / her  during the examination would be confiscated and would 
be returned back after completion of inquiry.

=== page 16 ===
13 
 
7.5.4 If on previous occasion, a disciplinary action was taken against a Student for malpractice used at 
examination and he/she is caught again for malpractices used at the examinations, in this event he/she shall 
be dealt with severely. Enhanced punishment can be imposed on such students. This enhanced punishment 
may extend to double the punishment provided for the offence, when committed at the second or subsequent 
examination. 
 
Practical/Dissertation/Project Report Examination:  
7.5.5 Student involved in malpractices at Practical/ Dissertation/ Project Report examinations including act of 
similarity index shall be dealt with as per the punishment provided for the theory examination. 
7.5.6 The Competent Authority, in addition to the above mentioned punishments, may impose a fine on the 
student declared guilty. 
 
7.6 Examination Grievance Redressal Mechanism 
(Providing Photo copies to the candidates and Revaluation) 
The Grievance Redressal Mechanism as regards evaluation of answer books and timelines to be followed for the same 
would be as under: 
7.6.1 The Grievance Redressal Mechanism will apply only to the ‘term-end Examinations’ of the University.  
7.6.2 The above mechanism will not apply to practicals / oral examinations/ viva/ projects/ MCQ’s in online 
exams/assignments/ dissertation/ presentation/ field work etc.  
7.6.3 The application for Redressal of Grievance can be made online only through the Student Portal. Applications made 
through offline mode would not be considered under any circumstances. 
7.6.4 All the students will be informed the course/module -wise marks obtained by them in the ‘Internal Continuous 
Assessment’ and ‘Term -end Examination’ by the Examination Office, on the date of declaration of result of the 
examinations of the respective class/es. The date of declaration of result shall be the date on which examination 
result is made live on ‘Student Portal’ of the University. 
7.6.5 Under the Grievance Redressal Mechanism, a student can apply for: 
a) Verification of Answer book: Under this process, on application of the student, the University verifies that 
(i) all the answers in the respective answer book are evaluated, (ii) marks have been allocated to each answer 
and carried forward to the first page of the answer book properly and (iii) totalling of the marks on the first 
page of the answer book has been carried out correctly. 
OR 
b) Re-evaluation of the Answer book: Under this process, the student may (i) opt to first apply for the 
photocopy/ies of the answer book/s and subsequently apply for the re -evaluation of the said answer book/s 
after going through the answer book OR  (ii) directly apply for the re -evaluation of his/her answer book/s 
without applying for photo copy of his/ her answer book. 
7.6.6 After the result declaration on ‘student portal’, if a student is not satisfied with the marks awarded to him/her in the 
Term-end Examination/s, in any course/module, s/he may apply for the Grievance Redressal within the prescribed 
number of days as per the example mentioned in the table below: 
 
Activity under Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism Time Limit Date of Declaration of Result 
Example:  17th October  
Application for Verification of 
Answer book/s 
Within 3 days from the date of result 
declaration  Example: 20th October  
Application for Photocopy of the 
answer book/s 
Within 2 days from the date of result 
declaration including holidays Example: 19th  October  
Receipt of the E-copy of Answer 
book/s 
Latest on the 2nd day from the date of 
result declaration including holidays 
(answer books will be sent by e mail 
link) 
Example: 19th October  
(This will be immediate on 
application) 
Application for Re -valuation of the 
answer book/s 
Within 3 days from the date of result 
declaration including holidays  
Example: 20th October till 16.00 
hrs. 
 
 
7.6.7 No application, received after the prescribed number of days as mentioned in the table above, shall be entertained 
for any reason whatsoever. 
7.6.8 Soft copy/ies of answer books will be available for download on the result declaration page after payment of the 
fees. Else soft copy of the answer book will be sent by email to the student concerned.  
7.6.9 Copies of the answer -book/s provided by the University are only for Grievance Redressal mechanism and do not 
have any evidentiary value.   
7.6.10 Any deviation from the above procedure by the student in any form shall be construed as an unfair act making him/ 
her liable for appropriate punishment by the University. The decision of the University shall be final in this regard.

=== page 17 ===
14 
 
7.6.11 Application for Redressal of grievance received after the stipulated due date shall not be entertained or 
accepted for any reason whatsoever. Also application will be deemed to be complete only after payment of 
requisite fee.  
7.6.12 The application received from the student for re- evaluation shall be placed before an external examiner for re-
evaluation. 
7.6.13 After following the process of re-evaluation under the Grievance Redressal, effect will be given to change in original 
marks on re-evaluation, if any, as under: 
 
7.6.13.1 If the marks of re-evaluation, increase or decrease by less than ten percent (10%) There will be no 
change in the marks and original marks awarded to the candidate in the subject will be retained .  
7.6.13.2 If the marks of re -evaluation increase or decrease between 10.01% and 20%: In such cases the 
marks originally awarded to the candidate in the subject shall be treated as null and void and the marks 
obtained by the candidate after re- evaluation shall be  accepted as the marks obtained in that subject. 
Fractional marks if any shall be rounded off for the purpose of computing the ten percent (10%) 
difference in marks. 
7.6.13.3 If the marks of re -evaluation increase or decrease by more than 20% A second revaluation o f the 
said answer books shall be done by the examiner from the panel of examiners for the said subject and 
then an average of the marks obtained in the first re-evaluation and marks obtained in the second 
re- evaluation shall be taken and this shall be accepted by the University as the final marks for the 
said subject (fractional marks if any shall be rounded off to the next integer). 
7.6.13.4 An answer book shall be sent for second revaluation to another senior examiner appointed by the 
Controller of Examinations in consultation with the Dean of the School or Chairperson of the Board of 
Studies of the University, if in the first revaluation, marks of a candidate are decreased below the passing 
marks or if a candidate obtains ‘F’ grade after the first revaluation or the marks required for securing a 
class from originally secured marks required for passing or for the particular class and the marks 
assigned by the third examiner in the second revaluation be treated as the final marks in the said subject. 
 
The revised marks obtained by a candidate after re- evaluation, as accepted by the University shall be taken into account for 
the purpose of amendment of his results only and the said result shall be communicated to the student/s on the student portal. 
Students may note that after carrying out reevaluation, the marks obtained may increase or decrease or may not change.  
 
7.6.14 The above difference in marks in percentage term shall be with reference to the maximum marks assigned for the 
term end examination of the respective subject.  
7.6.15 The examiner/s for re-evaluation will be appointed by the Controller of Examinations from the panel of examiners 
provided by the Dean of the School duly approved by Pro Vice Chancellor and the Vice Chancellor of the 
University. 
7.6.16 The revised marks obtained by a candidate after re- evaluation, as accepted by the University shall be taken into 
account for the purpose of amendment of his/her results only and the said result shall be communicated to the 
student/s by suitable means. 
7.6.16.1 The marks awarded by examiner/s in re -evaluation shall be final and binding on the student applicant 
and the original examiner. 
7.6.16.2 The whole process of Redressal of grievances shall be completed within a period of 15 working days 
from the date of receipt of application for Redressal of grievances. 
7.6.16.3 In any case, the photo copies of re-evaluated answer-books shall not be provided to the student/s. 
 
7.6.17 The outcome of Revaluation process shall be final and binding on student. 
Kindly refer Part II of SRB for rules of respective schools for Internal Continuous Assessment / Term End 
Evaluation, Grading system, Passing criteria, method of calculation of CGPA, Re -Examination, exceptional cases 
– medical etc. 
(To download the examination related formats go to the website nmims.edu → School → Cam pus → 
Academics → Examination).

=== page 18 ===
15 
 
8. Policy on Award / Prizes and Dean’s / Director’s list: 
8.1 One prize will be awarded where number of students in the batch/stream is between 01 and 20, two prizes will be 
awarded where number of students in the batch/stream is between 21 and 59, and three prizes will be awarded where 
number of students in the batch / stream is > 60.  
8.2 The criteria for award of prizes will be highest CGPA obtained by the students in the examinations of all the years of 
the program on programme completion.  
8.3 For the above purpose, count of students at the final year of the programme will be considered.  
8.4 In case of exactly the same CGPA obtained by two or more students for a particular rank, same medal may be given 
to the students and second and third (Silver & Bronze) medal may be given to the next ranking students.  
8.5 Rankings would always be decided at University level.  
8.6 Students should have passed all examinations in single attempt.  
8.7 Lateral admission cases may be considered for ranking purpose  
8.8 Students obtaining F grades/ATKT/ involved in unfair means or any misconduct will be ineligible to be listed in th e 
Rank Holder List and Dean’s/ Director’s list.  
8.9 The students who opt for Student Exchange program in any trimester/semester would be considered if he/she is 
eligible as per above criteria. However, performance at the partner University shall not be consid ered for award. 
 
8.10 Dean’s/ Director’s List: 
8.10.1 10% of the batch (top 10% students) on the basis of highest CGPA will be considered to be eligible to be in 
Dean’s/ Director’s List and will get a certificate at the end of the programme. (SBM Mumbai / Campus gives 
yearly). 
8.10.2 The Dean’s/ Director’s list would be for each programme/ stream at each campus.  
 
9. Guidelines for Scholarships: 
9.1 Each year there are several student awards and scholarships announced for different schools/programs  
 of NMIMS (as applicable school wise). 
9.2 Students are advised to apply for awards and participate in the process enthusiastically.  
9.3 Students are also advised to keep a good performance track record  if they wish to apply for these awards. Students 
obtaining F in any subject or with a record of misconduct or a record of low attendance will be automatically 
disqualified from the awards process. 
9.4 Certificate of merit to be given by Dean at school level. 
9.5 The students of NMIMS can avail national scholarship under the below mentioned schemes.  
• Central Sector Scheme of Scholarships for College and University students - Department Of Higher Education 
• Merit-Cum-Means Scholarship For Professional And Technical Courses Cs - Ministry Of Minority Affairs 
• Post Matric Scholarship Schemes Minorities CS - Ministry Of Minority Affairs 
• Prime Minister's Scholarship Scheme For Central Armed Police Forces And Assam Rifles  
All the scholarships offered by UGC are available for students to apply.  
9.6 A student who wish to apply for scholarship will have to go through school academic office.  
 
10. Guidelines for Admission Cancellation / Payment of fees / Academic Break / Re-admission/ Submission of Documents 
/ Admission Deferment  
 
10.1 Admission Cancellation procedure: 
For cancellation of admission, the student needs to apply online the application for cancellation of his / her seat along 
with original fee receipt and cancelled cheque to the admission department (if cancellation is before commencement of 
the programme).   
 
• The First year candidates who have paid the fees for the academic year can withdraw the admission and be eligible 
for refund as per the NMIMS refund policy informed and agreed upon during the admission process. 
• The student who wishes to withdraw admission should fill the application form using the url 
https://nmims.edu/admission-cancellation available on our webs ite nmims.edu. Withdrawal request can be 
applied only through this link. 
• Request before commencement: the admission department will process the document with the necessary 
approvals. 
• Request post the commencement: the candidate will have to get the Clearan ce /No dues from all the concerned 
departments of the School. 
• Once the process is completed, the refund of the fees (if applicable) shall be processed.  
• Refund of fees, if any, will be credited to the bank account details provided by the applicant in the application. If 
any dues are to be collected, that will be deducted before a refund of the fees.

=== page 19 ===
16 
 
 
10.2 Payment of fees: 
10.2.1 The promoted students for the subsequent years are required to pay the fees as per the email received from 
Accounts department.  Late fee will be levied if fee is not paid within the due date. 
10.2.2 Non-payment of fees within the stipulated time including the late fee period will attract cancellation of the 
studentship from that program. 
 
10.3 Academic break: 
Following rules are applicable for all the schools of NMIMS. 
After commencement of any programme, if a student wants to take a break for certain valid reason, then he / she can do 
so as per the following norms : 
i. The academic break can be granted to any student by respective Dean/Director of School/ campus. 
ii. The maximum period for an academic break is one year only. (in executive programmes  is upto two years). This 
will be allowed subject to Deans approval. 
 
10.3.1 Eligibility for Academic Break: 
Academic break can be granted to any student for any of the following reasons: 
a. Serious personal medical reasons involving hospitalization, if required and supported by documents.   
b. Serious ‘family’ related issues. 
c. Financial constraints. 
d. In executive programme , temporary t ransfer to other country / city or Financial crisis/Maternity/ shift of 
duties/additional assignments at the work place . 
e. The Dean of respective school will approve the academic break and forward the application of the student to 
admission department for necessary process. 
10.3.2 The academic break can be granted to any student at best twice during the programme as long as the total period of 
academic break is not exceeding one year and not exceeding the validity period of that programme.  
 
10.3.3 Payment of Fees for the academic break: If  the student has informed the Dean regarding academic break before the 
commencement of the relevant year and not paid the total fee for that year, then once the academic break is granted, 
student can pay the total fee (100%) prevalent at that time when he / she seeks re-admission. 
a. If a student wants to take academic break after the commencement of the academic year, but he / she has not 
attended the classes and if the fee is not paid, then while seeking re- admission he/she has to pay the total fee 
(100%) plus 25% of the total fee as re-admission fee to continue his studentship. 
 
b. If the student has paid the total fee for the entire year and then sought the academic break after commencement of 
that academic year in the middle of semester / trimester, then he/she has to pay 25% of the total fee prevalent at 
that time, towards re-admission in subsequent year. 
 
c. If a student has approval for an academic break on health grounds and has less than 20% attendance, the 25% fee 
for re-admission could be waived off as the student has not availed any facility of the institute and has not attended 
classes due to health reasons. The school may forward such cases to the VC office for approval.  
 
 
Academic break Fees to be paid at the time of admission after 
the academic break 
• Informed before the commencement of the 
academic year. 100% total fee prevalent. 
• Informed after commencement, not attended 
classes and fees not paid. 100% total fee + 25% readmission (prevalent). 
• Informed during the semester / trimester fees 
not paid for the current year. 100% total fee + 25% readmission (prevalent). 
• Informed during the academic year and fees 
paid for that year. 
25% of total fees as readmission fees prevalent 
that year.

=== page 20 ===
17 
 
 
10.4 Re-admission rules: 
A student can seek re -admission in the next academic year, in case he / she fails to fulfill the criteria mentioned under 
passing standards in SRB.  For this purpose, he / she has to pay 25% of the total fee prevalent at that time for that program. 
 
Students can take re-admission in the said year of the program only once.  He/she can take re-admission in different years 
as long as the total period of the program does not exceed the validity period of that program.   For example, for MBA the 
validity period is 4 years and for MBA Tech. it is 7 years, so a student can take re- admission maximum of two times but 
in different progressive years of the program. Admission to the subsequent years is subject to the maximum duration 
permissible for completion of the program (in years).  Such admissions will be at the student’s own risk of non-completion 
of the program during the maximum permissible duration (in years). 
 
Sr. No. Duration of the program 
(in years) 
Maximum duration permissible for 
completion of the program (in years) 
1 2 years 4 years 
2 3 years 5 years 
3 4 years 6 years 
4 5 years 7 years 
5 6 years 8 years 
 
If a student takes re-admission in a particular academic year and is not promoted again, either as per the passing standards 
of the respective program or any other reason as per academic rules, then the student will not be given a second chance for 
re-admission. For more details, please refer to Part II of SRB. 
 
10.5 Submission of certificates / mark sheets: 
A student has to submit all the relevant documents / certificates / mark sheets as per the offer letter issued by NMIMS.  
Non-submission of such mandatory documents after the stipulated time declared by the admission department will lead to 
the cancellation of admission of concerned student and the admission fees will NOT be refunded.  
If a student has submitted documents and discrepancy is found during verification, the admission would be 
cancelled and fees will be forfeited. 
 
 
10.6 Admission Deferment: 
The following rules are applicable to all the Schools of NMIMS. 
10.6.1 Eligibility for admission Deferment: 
Only those candidates who have paid the full fee or got an approval for part payment can apply for admission 
deferment. 
The candidate has to submit an application for ‘admission deferment’ in admission department before the 
commencement of that program stating the reasons for admission deferment.  Admission deferment can be approved 
only for one year. 
 
10.6.2 Who can apply: 
• Serious medical illness. 
• Serious family related reasons. 
• The candidate is not able to organize funds. 
• Candidate’s work related commitments, overseas assignments (over 6 months) 
The application needs to be submitted  to admission department, along with all the supporting documents for 
‘Admission Deferment’ consideration. 
An applicant who fails to obtain confirmation from Admission office of his/her deferment of admission will be deemed 
to have forfeited his/her position and will be deregistered from the course admitted to.  
 
10.6.3 Process for Admission deferment: 
10.6.3.1 Deferred admission may only be granted to first year students who have paid the required non -refundable 
enrolment deposit. 
10.6.3.2 The admission department will scrutinize all the applications and forward them with comments to the concerned 
authorities for approval.  The request to defer the offer of admission will be reviewed on case to case basis and 
will be granted depending on the reason stated along  with the supporting documents.  NMIMS decision with 
respect to this will be final and will not be challenged. 
10.6.3.3 Offer of admission deferment, if not, taken in the subsequent year will lapse and the fee paid will not be 
refunded.  Further, the applicant, if still wants to apply to NMIMS, has to undergo the admission process again 
as a fresh applicant.  
10.6.3.4 The letter of deferment of admission will be issued by admission department to the applicant.  
10.6.3.5 Students who are found to have applied to other colleges and institutes during their ti me away from NMIMS

=== page 21 ===
18 
 
will have their admission revoked and fees will not be refunded. 
10.6.3.6 Financial aid offers cannot be deferred. Students must reapply for financial aid.  
10.6.3.7 Admitted ‘Transfer’ students are not eligible for deferred admission. 
10.6.3.8 Deferrals are not automatic and, if granted, a non-refundable deposit is required to hold a place in the following 
year’s entering class. 
10.6.3.9 Once the program has commenced, then even though the applicant may have not attended the classes, still 
he/she will not be ‘eligible’ for ‘admission deferment’.

=== page 22 ===
19 
 
11 Library Rules and Regulations:  
11.1 Use of the Library is conditional on observance of the Rules and Regulations. Users must comply with these and any 
reasonable request or instruction issued by library staff. Anyone failing to do so may be excluded from the Library 
and/or incur a fine. The Librarian reserves the right to refer any breaches of the Rules and Regulations and/or improper 
behaviour towards library staff for consideration within the terms of the appropriate NMIMS disciplinary procedures. 
11.2 Access to the NMIMS Library is restricted t o staff and students of the NMIMS who have a current ly valid 
identification card issued by NMIMS and to such other persons as may be authorized by the Librarian.  
11.3 Students must carry their NMIMS student ID card, and staff must carry their NMIMS staff identity card to get entry 
and to use the Library and must produce this when required by an authorized person. This card must be used only by 
the member to whom it is issued. 
11.4 Bags and other personal possessions should not be left unattended for security reasons. The Library is not responsible 
for damage to or theft of private property. 
11.5 Silence is to be maintained in library areas. The use of mobile phones in the Library is strictly prohibited. Phones 
should be either s witched off or set to silent mode. Failure to  comply with these requirements may result in a fine 
and/or exclusion from the Library. Violating the rules will lead to a student’s penalty and /or three week suspension. 
11.6 The consumption of food and beverages (except for bottled water) and personal audio equipment are not permitted in 
the Library. 
11.7 Photography, filming, videotaping and audio-taping in the Library are strictly prohibited. 
11.8 Personal equipment should not be used without the prior permission of the Librarian. 
11.9 Users are required to comply with copyright regulations as displayed by the photocopiers. 
11.10 Data retrieved from the Library's electronic resources may not be used for purposes other than teaching, research, 
personal, educational development, administration and management of NMIMS  and development work associated 
with any of those mentioned above. Use of the data is not permitted for consultancy / services leading to commercial 
exploitation of the information for work of significant benefit to the employer of students on  an industrial placement 
or part-time courses. Users must also comply with the specific requirements of individual data providers. Passwords 
must never be revealed to others. 
11.11 Removing any material from the Library must be appropriately authorized and recorded. Damage to or  unauthorized 
material removal of material constitutes a severe offense and may lead to a fine or disciplinary action. 
11.12 Borrowing entitlement: Two books for ten days. One -time renewal is possible if the book is not in demand.  As the 
Library is RFID enabled, the issue of the books will be done at self-check-in kiosk only. 
11.13 A fine of Rs.3.00 per day per book is levied on overdue books. Students can check their account details online in 
OPAC (Online Public Access catalogue) and be notified of due by email. If fines or charges are outstanding, borrowing 
rights will be withdrawn, and passwords for accessing electronic services  will be withheld until those fines are paid. 
Reference books, Journals / magazines and Audio/Video material are strictly to be used / viewed in the library only. 
11.14 Users are responsible for material borrowed on their cards. They will be required to pay for any damage to, or loss of, 
material borrowed at replacement cost, plus an administrative charge. Borrowing rights are  withdrawn while the 
payment is outstanding.  
11.15 Students must wear appropriate dress (Bermuda, half pants, Short skirts, and Bathroom slippers are not allowed).  
11.16 Access to libraries and/or borrowing rights may also be withdrawn  temporarily if fees/charges in other parts of the 
NMIMS are outstanding. 
11.17 The award of NMIMS qualification will be deferred until all books and other library materials have been returned and 
outstanding fines/charges paid. 
11.18 For a list of electronic resources / Databases refer annexure. 
11.19 All library users should take care of pandemic precautionary measures.

=== page 23 ===
20 
 
12 Guidelines for the Use of Computing Facilities: 
12.1 NMIMS invests significant resources in the provision of computing resources fo r the students. In order to ensure 
maximum availability, computing resources must be used in a responsible way. Students are responsible for ensuring 
that these resources are used in an appropriate manner. All inappropriate websites are blocked for student access. The 
list of blocked websites is dynamically updated based on their defined global category. If any specific website requires 
to be accessed which is blocked with inappropriate, request to send an email to ITHelpdesk@nmims.edu . We will 
check the content of the website and found appropriate for access, necessary access will be granted.  
12.2 You are strongly advised to read these guidelines & regulations carefully. Failure to comply will result in the 
withdrawal of your rights to use these facilities and may lead to further disciplinary action. Please also note that the 
regulations and guidelines are subject to change without any prior notice. The latest version of this document will be 
available with the Computer Centre. 
12.3 Internet access to students will be as per the NMIMS policy. Any change request has to be routed through the 
Registrar in writing. 
12.4 Food and/or beverages are allowed only in the cafeteria. Food and/or beverages (except drinking water) will not be 
permitted in the Computer Centre. Smoking is not permitted on the Campus premises.  
12.5 It is important to note that all the SVKM/NMIMS premises are deployed with CCTV surveillance equipment and all 
the areas of the premises are recorded 24x7. 
12.6 It is important to note that all SVKM/NMIMS is monitoring the network 24x7. All actions and logs are stored and 
recorded. SVKM/NMIMS has all the rights to record all actions by student s on the network and use them 
appropriately. 
12.7 The students of NMIMS are provided with computing facilities to support their learning and research activities. Their 
use for any other purpose that interferes with these primary aims , or that otherwise, acts against the interests of the 
NMIMS is prohibited. In the event of non -approved usage of the computing facilities, NMIMS reserves the right to 
withdraw access to computing facilities at any time. 
12.8 The use of NMIMS computing facilities for students' commercial gain is prohibited.  
12.9 Not to use/install third-party software to bypass campus Network security policies. It is prohibited and may lead to 
further disciplinary action. 
12.10 Students residing  in college hostels not to touch or tamper with WiFi routers and other network infrastructure 
installed at hostels. If any such incidents are found, may lead to disciplinary action. 
12.11 Computer Centre facility will be provided on priority to the students of the concerned programs, where using a Laptop 
is not compulsory. 
12.12 Students are not allowed to connect personal pen drives / Laptops to the systems /smartboard installed in the 
classrooms. 
12.13 All students will be given NMIMS email id  on Microsoft O ffice 365  and internet authentication id. They are 
permitted to access the internet in the computer centre or on their own laptop through this id and password only. 
Action will be taken against any misuse of the internet and email Id is seen. 
12.14 Students will get a Microsoft email id for official email correspondence and to use MS Teams for online lectures and 
regular updates from University/School/College. 
12.15 Do not provide sensitive personal information (like passwords) over email. 
12.16 Students will get 15 GB of space in OneDrive to store documents for education purposes. 
12.17The use of computing facilities is governed by various applicable IT Acts, laws enacted by the Government of India 
(or any competent authority set up by the Government of India) and the rules formulated by the NMIMS.  
12.18 It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that the student’s activities do not contravene these or any other laws.  
12.19 Students using personal Laptop or any other devices for access ing campus infrastructure should have updated with 
the latest operating system (Windows / Mac) and antivirus patches. 
12.20 Students must comply with all requests+ or instructions issued by any Information Systems staff with respect to the 
use of NMIMS computing facilities.  
12.21 Improper behaviour towards staff in computer lab and/or while using computing faciliting will result in disciplinary 
action. 
12.22 NMIMS endeavours continually to provide a high level of service as regard the computing facilities. In case there is 
some problem with any of the services, students should lodge a written complaint in a Complaints Register available 
in Computer Lab. No action will be taken on any verbal complaint. 
12.23 The Information Systems Group will regularly make various announcements regarding the availability and use of the 
computing facilities. Such announcements will be communicated to you through notice boards/ email place d in the 
Computer Lab as well as Student Notice Boards/ emails/Students Portal. It is your duty to regularly check the notice 
boards/ email and plan your use of the facilities accordingly. 
12.24 The failure of any element of the computing service will not be accepted as a valid excuse of failure to reach an 
acceptable standard in assignments or examinations unless no other reasonable method of carrying out the work was 
available. 
12.25 Disciplinary Proceedings: In the event of a breach of these regulations, your access  to some or all of the computing 
facilities may be withdrawn depending on the outcome of disciplinary proceedings  submitted by respective 
Disciplinary Committee. This may seriously affect your ability to complete your course of study satisfactorily.  
12.26 If any student comes across any security incidents, please contact reportsecurityincidents@svkm.ac.in

=== page 24 ===
21 
 
12.27 These guidelines describe the reasonable and appropriate behaviour required by the Regulations for the Use of 
Computing Facilities at NMIMS.  
12.28 Use only your own login id and password and don’t  allow the password of any account issued to you to become 
known to any other person. If you allow another person to use your account, it must be in your presence, under your 
supervision and only for assistance or collaboration. You remain responsible for t hat person's use of your account 
and must identify that person to the NMIMS authorities if any breach of university regulations is suspected in 
connection with that use. 
12.29 It is recommended a strong password must be at least 8 characters long. It should not contain any of your personal 
information – specifically your real name, user name, or even your company name. It must be very unique from your 
previously used passwords. It should not contain any words spelled completely. 
12.30 Use of any faculty member user nam e and password to access IT infrastructure including smartboards is prohibited 
and may lead to disciplinary action. 
12.31 You should not copy or share other’s data resulting in data theft of any kind under the IT Act. Any act of such nature 
if found then the concerned student shall give explanation as to the said act amount to theft. If authority  does not 
found the explanation given as satisfactory then the said student shall be penalised as per the rules and regulatio ns 
framed by the University from time to time.  
12.32 Do not use or adopt any name or alias or user reference whether real or fictitious other than your own . 
12.33 Request to be placed only for required resources or access rights that you need. 
12.34 Once logged in, do not leave IT facilities unattended in an unlocked room. You must log out at the end of each logged 
in session unless prevented by system failure. Failure to do so may leave the account open for others to use. The 
NMIMS accepts no responsibility for any loss to a user consequent upon a failure to log out correctly at the end of a 
session. 
12.35 Removal, borrowing, connecting or disconnecting of any IT equipment is not permitted. Neither deliberately 
introduce any virus, worm, Trojan horse or other harmful or nuisance program or file into any IT facility or network 
/ campus, nor take deliberate action to circumvent any precautions taken or prescribed by the institution to prevent 
this. 
12.36 Do not in any way cause any form of damage neither to the NMIMS IT facilities nor to any of the accommodation 
or services associated with them. 
12.37 Without the permission of the account owner or system administrator, do not hack, access, copy, delete or amend or 
attempt so to do the computer account, information or resources of another user  
12.38 Do not initiate or perpetuate any chain email message. Do report immediately to the 'postmaster' the receipt of chain 
email messages forwarding the email message wherever possible. 
12.39 Students do not click on links or attachments from senders that they do not recognize or ask for something which is 
not regular in nature. 
12.40 You should not deliberately create, display, produce, store, circulate or transmit defamatory or libelous material.  
12.41 Transmission of unsolicited commercial or advertising material on NMIMS network / Campus is prohibited. 
12.42 Do not deliberately create, display, produce, store, circulate or transmit obscene material in any form or medium.  
12.43 Never monitor, read and disrupt network traffic inside the campus. 
12.44 Do not make deliberate unauthorised access to facilities or services accessible via the NMIMS Local Area Network 
(LAN). 
12.45 Appreciate staff effort or networked resources, including time on end systems accessible via LAN and the effort of 
staff involved in the support of those systems. 
12.46 Do not deny service to other users including deliberately or recklessly overloading access links or switching 
equipment. 
12.47 You must adhere to the terms and conditions of all licen se agreements relating to IT facilities, which  you use 
including software, equipment, services, documentation and other goods. 
12.48 You must use the IT facilities only for academic, research and administrative purposes together with limited personal 
use. Such personal use is allowed as a privilege , not a right, must conform to these guidelines, and s hould not incur 
unreasonable costs or have an adverse impact on resources or services. 
12.49 Students are prohibited from viewing any Pornographic material in computer Centre or on any other computer or IT 
system inside NMIMS campus or stor ing child pornography , Playing Games, hacking into networks and other 
computers, spamming and sending junk mail, and causing damage to IT infrastructure.  If found so, appropriate 
disciplinary action will be taken. 
12.50 You must obtain prior permission to use computers for commercial or outside work including the use of IT facilities 
to the substantial advantage of other bodies such as employers of placement students.  
12.51 Student's requests related to additional Internet Bandwidth requirements for special access to events, a request should 
reach IT helpdesk minimum 72 hours in advance. 
12.52 Do not interfere with or change any hardware or software; if you do, appropriate action will be taken to make it right. 
12.53 Do not interfere with the legitimate use by others of the IT facilities; do not remove or interfere with output belonging 
to others. 
12.54 Game software loading onto, or play games software on, the IT facilities unless required for academic purposes.  
12.55 Neither admit any other person to computer facilities or other NMIMS premises when those facilities or premises are 
locked nor enter unless authorised to do so.

=== page 25 ===
22 
 
12.56 You must respect the rights of others and should conduct yourself in a quiet and orderly manner when using IT 
facilities. 
12.57 You must immediately vacate any IT room wh en asked to do so by any person who has legitimately booked that 
room and must not leave processes running or files printing or otherwise interfere with the work of that person. 
Failure to cooperate gives that person the right to switch off the workstation that you are using. 
12.58 Important: In the event, the guidelines are not followed and there is a consequent damage to any computing facility, 
NMIMS reserves the right to charge students for the cost of rectification of such damage and/or take further 
disciplinary action. 
12.59 Student requests related to additional internet Bandwidth requirements & any IT related special access to any events, 
a request should reach IT helpdesk a minimum of 72 hours in advance with approval of HOD OR Registrar inform 
of Email and IT request form. 
12.60 Students are not allowed to change the default settings of Desktops/smartboard s installed in the classrooms, 
Conference Rooms & Board rooms (except prior approval intimation). 
 
13 Students Portal (Learning Management System): 
13.1 Student Portal is a Web-based learning management system designed to allow students and faculty to participate in 
classes delivered online or use online materials and activities to complement face -to-face teaching.  
13.2 URL: Access Portal through https://portal.svkm.ac.in/usermgmt/login 
13.3 Login Policy: Default User ID is Student’s SAP number and the Password will be mailed by the Admin / Course 
Coordinator 
13.4 Change Password: Students are recommended to change their password after first login for safe surfing. 
13.5 Email Update: Users need to change/update their email id & contact number for getting regular notification s. 
13.6 Course links: Your login will contain only the current trimester/semester course list. 
13.7 Announcements:  Announcements related to the course and other activities are published in the Announcements 
section. 
13.8 Library: It will be a single gateway for all library data like Question Papers, Syllabus, Notices, etc.  
13.9 Remote Access to Databases: Remot e access to all the web -based databases subscribed by SVKM & NMIMS 
Libraries globally. 
13.10 Assignments / Assessments: Assignments can be uploaded and will be graded by faculty. Online score s will be 
stored. All types of assessments can be conducted online. 
13.11 Academic Content: Syllabus, SRB, Teaching Scheme, Class Time-table, etc. can be uploaded. 
13.12 Course Content: All course related reading materials (ppts/notes/videos/links) can be published.   
13.13 Examination related content: Results and exam timetable can be made av ailable. Online examination is conducted 
on the portal. The SAP education exam is conducted online.  
13.14 Admission Related content: Admission Notices can be published. 
13.15 Assessment (Internal/External): Tests can be conducted on the Portal. Internal/External marks for respective courses 
will be published on the Students Portal. 
13.16 Faculty Feedback: Faculty Feedback is accepted online for respective trimester/semester. 
13.17 Online Similarity Index: Students / Faculty can check the Similarity index through this feature. 
13.18 Groups:  Groups can be created by faculty for assessments, File Exchange, Discussion Board, etc. for their Courses. 
13.19 Student Discussion Board / Chat: This tool can be used by students and faculty to interact and discuss topics related 
to their respective courses. 
13.20 Hostel Application: Students can book Hostel through the portal (where online admissions are done)  
13.21 Mobile Application: available for student attendance, assignment, survey, Display ICA marks, and notification can 
be viewed. 
13.22 Student Service: Students are benefitted from  students’ portal for Name validations as required for mark sheet s, 
photo upload, railway concession, bonafide certificates, and Letters of recommendation (LOR), whenever required. 
Registration and allocation process for CBCS and Interdisciplinary courses. 
13.23 Selection of Electives: options are available for MPSTME students to choose Open Electives. 
13.24 The student grievance processes have been incorporated into the Learning Management System (LMS)  
13.25 Online survey feature has been implemented in the student portal. 
 
Help – Assistance: mail to portal_app_team@svkm.ac.in or phone no: 022 - 42199993

=== page 26 ===
23 
 
 
14 Feedback Mechanism: 
NMIMS has a well -established online feedback mechanism through Student Portal  for communication of perceptions. The 
components of this feedback mechanism are: 
14.1 Feedback at the end of the third week of every trimester /Semester. Dean / Director  /Programme Chairperson/HOD 
will meet students personally, if applicable.  
14.2 Online Feedback through the Students Portal is taken using a questionnaire preferably in the last session of every 
course in each trimester /Semester. This feedback is compiled  and statistics are placed before each faculty member 
by the end of the trimester/Semester. 
14.2.1 All students should get involved in this mechanism seriously as it truly helps the NMIMS improve the 
quality of services and teaching provided. 
14.2.2 These are open-ended questions in which students can reflect learning and teaching aspects of the course. 
14.2.3 NMIMS uses feedback to improve the teaching-learning process proactively. 
14.2.4 While sharing the feedback to the faculty members, the student’s identity is kept confidential.

=== page 27 ===
24 
 
15 Mentoring Programme / ‘Psychologist and a Counsellor’: 
15.1 Mentoring Programme: 
Students (as applicable school wise) have been assigned faculty mentors whose role is to help assimilate the NMIMS 
culture, facilitate intelligent choice making regarding the selection of courses, and help identify resources needed by 
all students. Do meet your faculty mentor regularly as per their convenience and availability.  
 
15.2 Psychologist and a Counsellor: 
A Psychologist is a non -judgmental, trained professional  who understands, ensures privacy and confidentiality and  
guides you by giving choices so that you make the right decision. This process is facilitated using realistic, structured, 
and research-based therapy. 
Managing emotions is vital to ensure all -rounded progress in life. We need to break the old walls of myths and 
misconceptions to learn something new . Visiting a counsellor (Psychologist) enables  us to relearn more helpful, 
progressive, reality-based thinking.   
 
Personal counselling is essential at every step in life, even at the corporate level. What we think about situations affects 
our subconscious mind and interferes with our present-day life.  
 
As normal human beings at any given time in life, we could go through challenges and have no one to share with or guide 
us. We often do not share our issues with family or friends due to the fear of upsetting them. We worry that perhaps they 
may not understand or could become judgmental. At such times, we recommend Personal Counselling.  
 
i. “I cannot concentrate or focus nor can I sleep, at times, I get so scared that I go blank in my exams!”  
ii. “Since the time he left me, I cannot put my attention to anything I will not be able to live anymore……… can’t 
bear it if she is not in my life!” 
iii.  “I have lost my confidence I feel worthless /hopeless; no one loves me. I don’t want to live anymore ”  
iv. “I feel nobody understands what I am going through ...” (People become judgemental instead of understanding 
and supporting) “I feel people invalidate my feelings.” 
v. “I do not know whom to share my feelings with. Where do I seek help? Who will be able to help me? 
 
Have you had any of these repetitive thoughts or faced a rejection that you cannot cope with? 
 
Have you reacted very angrily at first and then later realised that reacting to the event was not needed and in the process, 
you harmed the relations you had with your friends and family?  Do you not know what went wrong then?  Do you not 
understand what triggered you?  
 
Just as we would treat a sprain with some ointment, we try to heal our emotional pain independently. When the sprain is 
not healing, we visit the doctor , and similarly, one sees the psychologist sometimes when we are unable to clear our 
emotional challenges on our own. The counsellor needs to check how deep your wound is, and usually, you are helped 
through therapeutic counseling.  
 
We may be unaware of our behaviour’s implications on others, but it eventually could affect our relations in daily life at 
home, in class, or at work. When past emotional situations are not dealt with therapeutically, we could develop unhealthy 
negative thoughts and feelings that we need to be aware of . They could again lead to complications  and affect our 
performance, decision making, logical thinking, studies, relationships and career. This continued  stress can gradually 
affect our body and physiological health causing hypertension, respiratory ailments, gastrointestinal disturbances, 
migraine and tension headaches, skin conditions and ulcers. Understanding the mind body connect is very essential. 
 
The biggest myth is that being emotional is to be wea k, so often, we push all our emotional issues under the carpet  and 
then take up unhealthy habits  like smoking, drinking, and substance abuse  to escape from our reality . We hop e to feel 
better, which lasts only for a short term. On the other hand, creating long term damage may lead to unhealthy dependency. 
 
NMIMS wants to ensure the holistic development of the students. We understand, that to perform at your highest potential 
in your academic journey, your emotions and mental health need to be well regulated and balanced. Therefore,  have 
appointed a team of psychologists who you connect with via call or email and set up a session to discuss any concern that 
may be affecting you.  (022-42332225 or email Nazneen.raimalwala@nmims.edu  / 022-42332218  or email 
Malvika.rao@nmims.edu) 
 
World Health organisation and the U.S. National Library of Medicine articles: 
National Library of Medicine: Psychosomatic disorders in developing countries: 
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16612204      
WHO | Prevention of bullying-related morbidity and mortality:  
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16612204

=== page 28 ===
25 
 
16 Rules for participating in National/International Level Contests: All contests have to be routed through the Faculty in charge 
of Student Activity/HOD. 
 
16.1 All contest notices, posters, letters; leaflets will be posted on student notice boards as well as on student email 
groups. 
16.2 All student contests are classified as follows. 
GRADE A: National and International level contests of very high repute.  
GRADE B: National level contests of high repute. 
GRADE C: Local and National level contests 
The respective school heads will make the classification of a contest in Grades A/B/C. 
16.3 The classification of the contest will determine the selection, reimbursement and appraisal of the students.  
16.4 Reimbursements (Applicable only for National Contest) 
16.4.1 Students going for GRADE A will be provided with 100% reimbursements for travel (Non A/C Sleeper 
class/ 3 tier) to and fro from the contest destination.  
16.4.2 Students going for GRADE B and C contests will be provided 100% reimbursements for travel (Non A/C 
Sleeper class/ 3 tier) to and fro from contest destination, provided that they have won the contest (1 st or 2nd 
place only). 
16.4.3 All reimbursements are subject to the approval of the head of the school and are hence subject to change.  
16.4.4 All reimbursements will be made only after the student has returned from the contest. All bills, tickets of 
the travel and copy of certificates will have to be retained and submitted. 
16.4.5 All students claiming the reimbursement will have to submit all details to the AR / DR of the school for 
processing through the accounts department. 
 
16.5 Contest Winners: 
Any student who has won any contest is required to provide full details of the contest and award won to the faculty 
(video clip / photographs/reports etc.) within 7 days of winning the contest. Any student failing to submit details 
of contest won within 7 days will not be considered for appraisals. 
 
 
17 Guidelines for Convocation 
 
17.1 The Annual Convocation will be held for all Full Time and Part Time programs of NMIMS.  
17.2 Only those students who have fulfilled the requirements of the program will be eligible to receive their 
degrees/diplomas at the Convocation. These requirements include migration certificate, attendance requirements, 
submission of all assignments and projects, clearance of all dues from various departments like accounts, hostel, 
library etc., and passing of all examinations and any other deliverables to the school/ NMIMS. 
17.3 In case any student is found ineligible to receive a degree/diploma on any account, he/she may apply for 
consideration of his case at least 48 hours before the Annual Convocation. The decision of the management will be 
final and binding. No last minute requests for reconsideration will be entertained.  
17.4 Students will be given a set of guidelines by school authorities and they are required to follow these guidelines for 
effective conduct of the event.

=== page 29 ===
26 
 
 
18 Roles and Responsibility of Class Representative and Student Council 
 
18.1 Class Representative: 
The Class Representative serves as a n important link between his/her division, the faculty & administration. The CRs 
for each division are selected by class vote for students who wish to nominate themselves for the post. The major roles 
& responsibilities include: 
i. Serving as the sole point of contact between faculty & students 
ii. Co-ordinating the scheduling of lectures, assignments & formation of groups 
iii. Resolving student grievances 
iv. Relationship building & co-ordinating with CRs from other divisions 
v. CRs cannot cancel / Reschedule lectures directly with Faculty 
vi. Any additional responsibility assigned by school heads. 
 
18.2 Student Council: 
 
NMIMS University Students’ Council (NUSC) 
The NMIMS University Student s’ Council is the apex student body of the University and has a representation from 
students across schools and campuses of NMIMS University. The primary objective of the student council body at the 
University level is to assimilate and integrate students of NMIMS from all the constituents and schools across various 
campuses in Mumbai and other locations and to provide the students with a platform to harness their creative activities. 
The NMIMS University Student Council  (NUSC) promotes collective and constructive leadership within the student 
community. 
 
The major roles and responsibilities of the Students Council include: 
• Providing a holistic and integrative platform to encourage interaction between various streams and courses.  
• Organizing a University Day, with the intent of executing and planning parallel activities and events across all 
schools and campuses. 
• Organizing a University-level Cultural/ Sports festival, to encourage participation and assimilation for the 
holistic development of all students. 
• Promoting and publishing student success stories on social media platforms and forums to garner response s for 
the various accolades and accomplishments. 
• Organize activities that are in the larger interest of the student community. 
 
From each school/campus two student council representatives will constitute the NMIMS University Student Council 
(NUSC). The names of representatives are finalized by the Dean/Director/Head of the respective school. The NUSC 
comprises executive committee positions i.e.: President, Vice President, General Secretary, and Treasurer, along with 
Head of Departments and other council members representing schools and campuses across NMIMS University. The 
executive committee represents and coordinates with the council members for various activities and every academic 
year is selected through a formal selection procedure (consisting of voting and personal interviews etc.) involving the 
Faculty Advisor/ faculty members & existing Council members. 
 
18.3 Student Council (School Level) 
The Student Council is the apex student body at every school and represents the full-time students. The Vice-President, 
General Secretary, and Cultural Secretary along with a team of executive members and course representatives support 
the President and share responsibility for each student body & activity on campus. The Council for every academic 
year is selected through a formal selection procedure involving faculty /Admin heads of the School & existing Council 
members. The major roles & responsibilities include: 
18.3.1 To serve as a formal communication channel between the students, faculty and administration . 
18.3.2 To navigate all student-related activities at NMIMS and facilitate a better life on campus. 
18.3.3 To spearhead the organisation & co -ordination of the Corporate Festival, the Cultural Festival, & other 
Events. 
18.3.4 To assist all public relations activities and supervise student publications & newsletters at NMIMS 
18.3.5 All the cell activities have to be routed through the President of the cell, General Secretary of Council (Budget 
and Release of Money), HOD/Dean/Director, Accounts Department – In case of Release of Money. 
18.3.6 Communication and Invitations of events / guest lecturers / workshops etc. conducted by cells and council 
have to be informed to the HOD/Dean/Director, well in advance. 
18.3.7 For the major events prior to a formal invitation to be given to all the senior management  
18.3.8 Submit a trimester/semester report at the end of every trimester/semester to faculty In -charge. 
For more school specific details, kindly refer to Part II of SRB.

=== page 30 ===
27 
 
19. Interface with Accounts: 
 
19.1 All students who are working for placement, contests, co-curricular, extra-curricular and any other activities for and 
on behalf of NMIMS that need funding and accounting from NMIMS, are required to prepare budgets for all their 
expenses well in advance and obtain approval from the Management. Once the expenses are incurred, they must be 
settled within 72 hours along with the report of activities. 
 
19.2 Re-examination Fees: 
The students who have failed and wish to re -appear for an examination will be required to pay re -examination fees, 
which shall be determined from time to time and communicated through suitable mechanisms.  
 
19.3 Re-Admission fees: 
A person who is not allowed to progress to the next year due to rules regarding failures in multiple courses/subjects 
shall be required to take re-admission and attend all the classes of that academic year. He will be required to pay re -
admission fees, which will include tuition fees and other fees as prescribed from time to time. 
 
19.4 Re-Registration Fees: 
A Diploma student  who fails in a course/subject shall be required to re- register himself in that course for the next 
year by paying re-registration fees, which shall be determined from time to time and communicated through suitable 
mechanisms. 
 
19.5 Hostel Deposit Refund: 
Location: NMIMS Accounts Department 
Procedure: 
19.5.1 Please procure the signature of the Hostel in-charge on the receipt. 
19.5.2 Submit the signed Hostel Deposit Receipt to Accounts Department along with Application for Refund as 
per Annexure 9. 
19.5.3 Please attach copy of cancelled cheque for your own account or your parent’s account. Same particulars of 
the bank account to which refund is to be send are to be mentioned on the Application for Refund form. 
19.5.4 Please allow a period of 3 weeks for the issue of the Refund. 
 
19.6 Library Deposit and Security Deposit Refund: 
Location: Course Coordinator 
Procedure: 
19.6.1 On completion of program (course), course coordinator would co-ordinate with all students for Student Bank 
account details (for NEFT Transfer). The same is required for a refund of Library and Security Deposit 
19.6.2 Please allow a period of 3 weeks for issue of the Refund through NEFT

=== page 31 ===
28 
 
20. University level: Anti-Ragging Committee / Women Grievance Redressal Cell / Internal Complaints 
Committee / University Student Grievance Redressal Cell / Caste Based Discrimination by SC/ST/OBC 
students/ Ombudsman. 
 
20.1 Ragging: Ragging of fellow students in any form is strictly prohibited inside and outside the campus. Any student/s 
found guilty of ragging and/or abetting ragging, whether actively or passively, or being a part of a conspiracy to 
promote ragging, is liable to be  punished as per the rules. R agging often ends up in sexual or physical harassment of  
the victim. The institute maintains a zero-tolerance policy towards ragging. All issues in this regard will be dealt with 
utmost urgency and stringent action will be taken against those involved.  
To help students, Committees have been formed at the University level and School level, please refer to Part II of 
SRB. 
Committee members will be modified if there is any change. 
It is mandatory as per the Hon. Supreme Court & UGC/MHRD Regulations that all students fill in an Anti Raging Undertaking, 
each year. To make the process easy MHRD has developed an ONLINE Facility. You are requested to fill in the College name 
followed by SVKM’s NMIMS Deemed to be University while filling out the online form. Students can fill out an Undertaking 
ONLINE at any of the links: www.amanmovement.org  (OR)  www.antiragging.in. 
 
Anti-Ragging Committees:  
University Level    
Name Designation E-mail ID Contact no. 
1.  Dr. Bala Krishnamoorthy, 
Professor 
Chairperson Bala.Krishnamoorthy@sbm.nmims.
edu 
022 42355555 
2.  Dr. Hari Kumar Iyer, 
Professor 
Member Harikumar.Iyer@sbm.nmims.edu 022 42355558 
3.  Dr. Preeti Khanna, 
Professor 
Member Preeti.Khanna@sbm.nmims.edu 022 42355557 
4.  Dr. Minu Mehta, 
Professor 
Member minu.mehta@nmims.edu 022 42355759 
5.  Ms. Deepali Kamle, Asst. 
Professor 
Member deepali.kamle@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
6.  Juhu Police Station Member (Police)  juhupolicestation@gmail.com;  022 26183856 
7.  NGO representatives will also be part of this committee. 
At Hostels, Mumbai    
1. Shri Harshad H. Shah Member harshad.shah@svkm.ac.in 022 42199999 
2. Dr Meena Chintamaneni Member 
Meena.Chintamaneni@nmims.edu 
022-42355555 
3. Prof. Seema Mahajan Member seemam@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
4. Dr. Ashish Daptardar Chairperson Ashish.Daptardar1@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
5. Mr. Venugopal K Member Venugopal.k@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
 
20.2   Women Grievance Redressal Cell:  
Name Designation E-mail ID Contact no. 
1.  Prof. Sangita Kher,  
I/c Dean, ASMSOC, NMIMS 
Chairperson sangita.kher@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
2.  Dr. Ketan Shah,  
Professor & HOD, MPSTME 
Member ketanshah@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
3.  Ms. Karuna Bhaya, 
Finance Officer, NMIMS 
Member KarunaB@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
4.  
Dr. Meena Galliara,  
Director, Centre for Sustainability 
Management & Social Ent 
Member Meena.Galliara@sbm.nmims.edu 022 42355555 
5.  Mr. Paramanand Rajwar,  
Deputy Registrar, Administration 
Member Paramanand.Rajwar@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
6.  Dr. Ashish Daptardar,  
In-charge Registrar 
Member Secretary Ashish.Daptardar1@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
7.  NGO Representatives will also be part of this committee

=== page 32 ===
29 
 
 
20.3 Sexual harassment:  Sexual harassment on campus or outside campus is unlawful, as well as unethical, and will not be 
tolerated. All issues in this regard will be dealt with utmost urgency and stringent action will be taken against those involved. 
As per high court order, a committee has been formed to look into all such complaints. 
 
Internal Complaints Committee: 
Name Designation E-mail ID Contact no. 
1.  
Dr. Meena Galliara, Professor, 
Centre for Sustainability 
Management & Social Ent. 
Chairperson Meena.Galliara@sbm.nmims.edu 022 42355555 
2.  Dr. Ketan Shah,  
Associate Professor, MPSTME Member Secretary 
ketanshah@nmims.edu 
022 42355555 
3.  Ms. Karuna Bhaya, 
Finance Officer, NMIMS Member 
KarunaB@nmims.edu 
022 42355555 
4.  Ms. Vandana Kushte, Dy. 
Registrar Member 
Vandana.Kushte@nmims.edu 
022 42355555 
5.  Dr. Vinod Malap, Dy. 
Registrar, HR 
Member Vinod.Malap@nmims.edu 022 42355555 
6.  Majlis Legal Centre NGO Representative   
7.  Ms. Sakshi Taparia Student 
Resresentative 
  
8.  Ms. Madhumita M. Student 
Resresentative 
  
9.  Ms. Tanya Kulkarni Student 
Resresentative 
  
  
20.4 University Student Grievance Redressal Committee: 
 
Name Designation E-mail ID Contact no. 
1.  Dr. Hari Kumar Iyer Chairperson Harikumar.Iyer@sbm.nmims.edu 022 42355555 
2.  Dr. Ketan Shah Member Secretary 
KetanShah@nmims.edu 
022 42355555 
3.  Ms. Karuna Bhaya Member 
KarunaB@nmims.edu 
022 42355555 
4.  Dr. Meena Galliara Member 
Meena.Galliara@sbm.nmims.edu 
022 42355555 
5.  Mr. Paramanand Rajwar Member 
Paramanand.Rajwar@nmims.edu 
022 42355555 
6.  Dr. Ashish Daptardar Member Secretary 
Ashish.Daptardar1@nmims.edu 
022 42355555 
7.  Ms. Tanya Kulkarni Student 
Representative 
Tanya.kulkarni@nmims.in 
022 42355555 
 
20.5 Caste Based Discrimination by SC/ST/OBC Students: 
 
 Name Designation E-mail ID Contact no. 
1. Dr. Meena Chintamaneni  Member meena.chintamaneni@nmims.edu  022 42355555 
2. Dr. Vinod Malap Member 
Vinod.Malap@nmims.edu 
022 42355555 
3. Dr. Paramanand Rajwar Member 
Paramanand.Rajwar@nmims.edu 
022 42355555 
4. Mr. Masseh Khatib  Member 
Masseh.Khatib@nmims.edu 
022 42355555 
5. Ms. Vandana Shegokar Member 
vandana.shegokar@nmims.edu 
022 42355555 
 
20.6 Ombudsman: The Ombudsman shall exercise the power to hear the grievances of those who are not satisfied with the 
decision of NMIMS Grievance Redressal Committee. The Ombudsman would be required to dispose of cases within one month 
of the receipt for speedy redress of grievances. On conclusion of the proceeding, the O mbudsman shall pass such order, with 
reasons for such order, as may be deemed fit to redress the grievance and provide such relief as may be desirable to the affected 
party. Justice Abhay Thipsay (Retd. Justice) has been appointed as Ombudsman at NMIMS University.  
 
 For more details, kindly refer AICTE regulations on Ombudsman.

=== page 33 ===
30 
 
 
21. Safety Guide for Students on Floods, Fire and Earthquakes 
 
NMIMS gives utmost importance to safety of its students. It prepares students for natural hazards.  
The safety measures for some natural disasters such as 1) Floods, 2) Earthquakes and 3) Fire are highlighted briefly.  
 
21.1 Floods: Precautions to be taken in case of Floods are given in Table 1 below.  
Before Floods  During Floods  After Floods  
• Identify and visit elevated areas in 
and around the Institute as places of 
refuge during a flood 
• Be aware of drainage channels, and 
other low -lying areas known to 
flood suddenly. Consult and 
involve local authorities in the 
institutes 
• Check out for the monsoon alerts 
for the heavy rains declar ed by the 
Municipal Corporation 
• Do not travel long distances on 
dates indicated as ‘Monsoon 
Alerts’. Contact the Institute if there 
is any pre -planned activity or 
examination or any other important 
work on that day and try to adjust it 
on some other day 
• Keep locally available equipment  
such as ropes, batter ies, radio, 
plastic bottles and cans handy 
during the rainy season. This can 
help you to plan your rescue 
• Prepare a food kit including 
emergency food items such as 
biscuits, snacks, drinking water and 
so on 
• Evacuate to previously identified elevated 
areas 
• Your life is most precious  Avoid saving 
valuables at that moment. 
• Disconnect electrical appliances.  
• Turn off utilities at the main switches or valves 
if instructed to do so 
• Don’t touch electrical equipment if you are 
wet or standing in water 
• Do not walk through moving water. Six inches 
of moving water can make you fall 
• If you have to walk in water, walk where the 
water is not moving 
• Use a stick to check the firmness of the ground 
in front of you 
• Avoid floodwaters; water may be 
contaminated by oil, gasoline, or raw sewage 
• Water may also be electrically charged from 
underground or downed power lines 
• Listen to the radio for advance d information 
and advice. Don’t spread rumors 
• Move vehicles to the highest ground nearby 
• Do not enter floodwaters by foot if you can 
avoid it 
• Never wander around a flooded area 
• Drink clean water 
• Stay away from downed power lines, 
and report them to Security Officer 
• Leave the Institute / home only when 
authorities indicate it is safe 
• Stay out of any building if it is 
surrounded by floodwaters 
• Use extreme caution when entering 
buildings; there may be hidden 
damage, particularly on foundations 
• Floors in the building will be slippery 
due to water and mud. Walk carefully 
on the slippery floor. 
• Wear appropriate footwear. Do not 
use slippers during the rainy season  
• Watch out for loose flooring, holes 
and dislodged nails 
• Clean and disinfect everything that 
got wet 
• Discard any food items which may 
have got wet 
• Inform them about the damaged 
drainage and sewage systems in and 
around the building to the authorities 
as soon as possible. These can be a 
major health hazard 
• First protect yourself and then help 
others. 
 
21.2 Earthquake: Precautions to be taken in case of earthquakes are displayed in Table 2 below:  
Before Earthquake During Earthquake After Earthquake 
• In hostel or at home 
keep heavy objects on 
lower shelves so they 
will not fall on you 
during an earthquake.  
 
• Make sure your water 
heater and gas cylinder 
is secured and intact. 
This will ensure that it 
will not fall during an 
earthquake and hurt 
someone or start a fire.  
• Keep a torch and a 
mobile handy. 
• Keep the corridors in the 
hostel/house clear of 
furniture and other 
things, making 
movement easier. 
 
If you are at home or inside a 
building 
• Do not rush to the doors or exits; 
never use the lifts; keep well away 
from windows, mirrors, chimneys 
and furniture. 
• Protect yourself by staying under the 
lintel of an inne r door, in the corner 
of a room, under a table or even 
under a bed.  
If you are on the street  
• Walk towards an open place in a 
calm and composed manner. Do not 
run and do not wander round the 
streets. 
• Keep away from buildings, 
especially old, tall or detac hed 
buildings, electricity wires, slopes 
and walls, which are liable to 
collapse. 
 
 
 
If you are at home or inside a building 
• Expect aftershocks. Be prepared. Stay where you are and 
do not come out immediately.  
• Keep calm and obey any instructions you hear after you 
come out 
• Turn off the water, gas and electricity 
 
• Do not smoke and do not light matches or use a cigarette 
lighter. Do not turn on switches. There may be gas leaks 
or short circuits. 
• If there is a fire, try to put it out. If you cannot, call the 
fire brigade.  
• Immediately clean up any inflammable products that may 
have spilled (alcohol, paint etc.). 
• Avoid places where there are loose electric wires and do 
not touch any metal object in contact with them.  
• Do not drink water from open containers without having 
examined it and filtered it through a sieve, a filter or an 
ordinary clean cloth.  
• Eat something. You will feel better and more capable of 
helping others.  
• If the building is badly damaged, you will have to leave 
it. Collect water containers, food, and ordinary and

=== page 34 ===
31 
 
Before Earthquake During Earthquake After Earthquake 
If you are driving 
• Stop the vehicle away from 
buildings, walls, slopes, electricity 
wires and cables, and stay in the 
vehicle.  
 
special medicines (for persons with heart complaints, 
diabetes, etc.). 
• Help people who are injured. Provide them with first aid. 
Do not move seriously injured people unless they are in 
danger. 
If you are outside 
• If you know that people have been buried, tell the rescue 
teams. Do not rush and do not worsen the situation of 
injured persons or your own situation.  
• Do not re -enter badly damaged buildings and do not go 
near damaged structures. 
• Do not walk around the streets to see what has happened. 
Keep clear of the streets to enable rescue vehicles to pass. 
• Keep away from beaches and low banks of rivers. Huge 
waves may sweep in. 
• Keep updating yourself with the latest information on 
earthquakes through radio or T. V.  
 
21.3 Fire: Precautions to be taken in case of fire are given in Table 3 below: 
 
Before Fire During Fire After Fire 
• Identify the fire hazards 
and where fires might 
start, e.g. laboratories, 
storerooms, kitchens  
and other such places. 
• Identify all the exit 
routes of the Institute.  
• Check the adequacy of 
the firefighting 
apparatus and its 
maintenance. 
 
• Do not panic. Shout for help. 
• Do not run. 
• Do not waste time collecting valuables. 
• Inform the fire brigade about the fire and alert neighbors. 
• If possible, use a fire extinguisher. 
• Do not take shelter in the toilet. 
• Shut all the doors behind you while leaving the room to prevent 
fire from spreading everywhere. 
• Do not use the lift to escape. 
• Use the nearest means of escape and the staircase available.  
• Exit ground level instead of the terrace. 
• Report about your safe escape and any other information to the 
University authorities, fire brigade or police present at the site. 
 
If trapped or stranded: 
• Stay close to the floor level. 
• Cover the gaps of the door with any piece of cloth available. 
• Do not jump out of the building. 
• Signal or shout for help. 
• Stop, drop and roll on the ground and cover with a blanket; pour 
water on the body 
• Dial 101 or 22620 5301 for fire brigade 
• Give the fire officer a detailed address, the nature of the incident 
and the telephone number from which you are calling. Preferably,  
use a landline. Keep down the receiver and wait at the same spot. 
Control Room will call back to verify the call. 
• Wait for the Fire Brigade to arrive and co -operate with the 
firefighters. 
• Don’t re-enter or permit 
anyone to enter the 
building, unless the fire 
officials have permitted to 
enter. 
 
 
21.4 In case of  any injury caused or loss of life to the negliegence of the student and/or  due to natural calamities  the 
institution shall not be held liable in any form of compensation and/or responsibility whatsoever.

=== page 35 ===
32 
 
22. The list of websites categories that are blocked for use at NMIMS and Hostels owned by NMIMS. 
 
Sr. No. Category 
1 Potentially Liable 
2 Drug Abuse 
3 Occult 
4 Hacking 
5 Illegal Unethical 
6 Racism and Hate 
7 Violence 
8 Marijuana 
9 Folklore 
10 Proxy Avoidance 
11 Web Translation 
12 Phishing 
13 Plagiarism 
14 Child Abuse 
15 Controversial 
16 Abortion 
Sr. No. Category 
17 Adult Materials 
18 Advocacy 
Organizations 
19 Gambling 
20 extremist Groups 
21 Nudity And Risqué 
22 Pornography 
23 Tasteless 
24 Weapons 
25 Sex Education 
26 Alcohol 
27 Tobacco 
28 Lingerie and 
Swimsuit 
29 Sports Hunting and 
War Games 
30 Games 
Sr. No. Category 
31 Peer-to-peer File 
Sharing 
32 Multimedia 
Download 
33 Internet Radio and 
TV 
34 Potential Security 
Violating 
35 Malware 
36 Spyware 
37 Web Hosting 
38 Multimedia Search 
39 Audio Search 
40 Video Search 
41 Spam URL

=== page 36 ===
33 
 
 
23. NMIMS INFOLINE (for Mumbai Campus)  
 
Agency Contact Number 
Disaster Management Cell of Municipal Corporation of 
Greater Mumbai 108 
  
 Police    
       Police Help Line 100 
       Juhu Police Station 26184432 / 26183856 
       Vile Parle Police Station 26117307 / 26117317 
       Vile Parle-East,  Police Station 26112813 
        D. N. Nagar, Andheri (W) Police Station  26303893 / 26304002 / 26303038 
       Andheri (E) Police Station 26831562 / 26842677 
       Santacruz Police Station  26492972 / 26487856 
  
Fire Brigade   
        Fire Brigade Help Line  101 
        Andheri Fire Station 26205301 
  
 Ambulance 102 / 1298/1252 
  
 Hospitals   
        Dr. Balabhai Nanavati Hospital 26182255 / 2626 7500 
        Dr. Cooper Hospital 26207254 
  
DOCTORS ON BOARD  
Dr. Ushma Mashru, Ground Floor, Mithibai College 42355909 
Dr. Harish Dhuri, Ground Floor, Mithibai College  42355909 
  
Travel Agency   
        V-explore 42705205/ 42705255 
  
Hostel (Contact – Mr. Venugopal)   
        MKM Sanghvi Girls Hostel 022-26256382/ 83 
        Bansi Villa Girls Res. Flats 022-4235 5555 / 5557 
        G. R. Jani Hostel Boys 022-42334056 
        Anand Hotel Premises Boys Res Flats 022-4235 5555 / 5557 
  
Psychologists and Counsellors  
For Mumbai Campus: Psychologists and Counsellors,   
Ms. Nazneen Raimalwala 
7th floor faculty area, Cabin:-732, NMIMS Mumbai (Old bldg.) 
022-42332225 or email 
Nazneen.raimalwala@nmims.edu 
Ms. Malvika Rao 
8th floor faculty area, Cabin: -West-843, NMIMS Mumbai 
Campus 
022-42332218  or email 
Malvika.rao@nmims.edu

=== page 37 ===
34 
 
 
 
24. People you should know 
 
University Administration 
 
Name Designation 
Dr. Ramesh Bhat Vice Chancellor 
Dr. Sharad Mhaiskar Pro Vice-Chancellor 
Dr. Meena Chintamaneni Pro Vice-Chancellor 
Dr. Ashish Daptardar Additional Registrar 
Dr. Tanmoy Chakraborty Additional Registrar 
Ms. Shobha Pai Director (Placements) 
Mr. Burzeen Bhathena Director (Marketing) 
Ms. Meena Saxena Director, International Linkage 
Dr. Vinod Malap Deputy Registrar (HR)- NMIMS 
Ms. Neha Patade Deputy Registrar (Admission) 
Ms. Vandana Kushte Deputy Registrar (Academics) 
Mr. Paramanand Rajwar Deputy Registrar, Administration 
Mr. Shivanand Sadlapur Librarian 
Mr. Samir Singh Deputy Director (Technology 
Solutions) 
Ms. Nazneen Raimalwala 
Ms. Malvika Rao 
Counsellor (Psychologist) 
 
Finance & Accounts 
Ms. Karuna Bhaya Finance Controller 
Ms. Varsha Oak Addl. Finance Controller 
Ms. Niti Bhatt Chief Accountant 
Examinations 
Mr. Ashish Apte Controller of Examinations 
Ms. Shilpa Patil Deputy Controller of Examinations 
Ms. Janhavi Shivgan Deputy Controller of Examinations 
Mr. Naresh Methwani Deputy Registrar

=== page 38 ===
SVKM'S
NMIMS
Doemed--leUNIVERSITY
ANNEXURES
35

=== page 39 ===
36 
 
 
 
 
APPLICATION OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE 
 
 
School of……………………….. 
(10% additional exemption in attendance) 
 
NAME: _______________________________________________________________  Date: ______________ 
Email ID: _____________________________________________Mobile No. ____________________________ 
Program: _____________________   Trimester/Semester _________ Roll No. : ____________Div: ________      
Leave Period: From: ____________________ to ___________________ No. of Days missed: ____________ 
Reason: -  
 
 
 
 
 
 
I have missed more than 20 % of sessions for the reasons mentioned below and request you to consider this application 
for my attendance purposes on a special case basis (As per SRB).  
 
Student’s Signature: __________________ Enclosures: _______________________________ 
  
To be filled by Students 
(For Office use) 
Course(s) / subject(s) 
 
No. of Class / 
hours held 
during the leave 
period 
Class / Hours 
attended during 
the said period 
Exemption (s) in 
hours to be given 
for above reason 
Attendance as 
of a date 
before the 
exemption 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
      
____________________________________   ___________________________ 
Checked by Course Coordinator (Signature)   Verified by AR / DR (signature) 
 
 
 
________________________________________________ 
Approved by HOD/Associate Dean/Dean/Director  
(School can update signatories as per school specifications)

=== page 40 ===
37 
 
Annexure 1 
 
SVKM’s NMIMS DEEMED-TO-BE-UNIVERSITY 
APPLICATION FORM FOR NMIMS STUDENTS FOR APPLYING FOR 
STUDENT EXCHANGE PROGRAM 
 
Name of School: ________________________________________________ 
 
Name of the Student: _____________________________________________________________ 
 
Name of the Program: _____________________________________________________________ 
 
CGPA in the last trimester/semester attended at NMIMS________________.  
 
Roll No. _______________Contact No. ___________________ Email ID _________________________ 
 
Passport No. __________________ Issued at (place)_____________Date of Expiry _________ 
 
Parents Name & Address: 
Father’s Name ___________________________Mother’s Name ________________________ 
Address________________________________________________________________________ 
_______________________________________________________________________________ 
Phone No. ( R ) _________________________Mobile No. ____________________________ 
Name of the place you are interested to go for the student exchange program. Kindly give priority by writing numbers 
1,2,3,4 as per your choice. All places and seats are limited and will be offered subject to your performance in the 
selection process and availability. 
 
1. ________________________________   
 
2. ________________________________   
 
3. ________________________________   
 
4. ________________________________   
 
5. Any other University as Mentioned in the Mail: ________________________________   
 
 
Name of the Foreign Language you are acquainted with _____________________________ 
If selected, I undertake to apply for Visa on my own initiative. I am also liable not to back out of the process. 
 
Signature of the Student   _____________________________Date __________________ 
 
Enclosure: A hard copy of your CV needs to be attached along with the application form.

=== page 41 ===
38 
 
Annexure 2 
SVKM's  NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University  
      Vile Parle (W), Mumbai-400056. 
           Tel: 022-4235555 / Website: www.nmims.edu 
 
 
 APPLICATION FORM 
(Applicable for incoming students under the Student Exchange program) 
 
 
1. Personal Information 
 
Name of the Student:  ___________________________________________________________________________________  
First name   Middle name   Last name 
 
Nationality ______________    Gender           M               F   Date of Birth ___________ (d/m/y) 
          
Passport No. ______________Issued at (Place ) ___________ Date of Expiry ___________________ 
 
Local Address____________________________________________________________________________                                                                                      
Address  _________________________________________________________________________________  
PhoneNo.______________Email1._____________________Email2._______________________________  
 
Home University Details: 
Name _____________________________________________________________________________ ______ 
Address _________________________________________________________________________________  
_________________________________________________________________________________________  
Phone no.____________________ Website ___________________________________________________  
University ContactPerson_______________________EmailID_____________________________  
Person to be contacted in case of emergency: 
Name____________________________________Relation________________________________________  
Address__________________________________________________________________________________  
Phone No.___________________________Email ID _____________________________________________  
Do you have any relatives / friends/ contacts in India? If yes, pl provide the details:  
Name__________________________________________Relation__________________________________  
Address _________________________________________________________________________________  
Phone No.___________________________ Email ID ____________________________________________  
Medical Insurance details:  
Insurer_______________________PolicyNo.__________________Contact person__________________  
Blood group__________________ Vaccination Details ___________________________________  
 
Any medical problem, which you would like to mention to us _________________________________________  
 
2. Educational Qualification (Completed)  
 
Examination University / Board No. of Years of Education Year of Passing Percentage / Grade 
     
     
     
     
     
 
3. Details of any aptitude test taken:(GMAT, GRE, TOFEL, SAT, Any other) 
 
Name of the Test________________Score ___________________ Percentile Score_____________  
 
 
4. Program for which enrolled at a home institution 
Level:  Bachelor                    Master                 Diploma                  Any other (Specify name) 
 
Name of the Program _____________________________ Duration _________________________  
 
 
 
Photo

=== page 42 ===
39 
 
Year: First year         Second year         Third Year          Fourth year         Fifth Year  
 
Sr. 
No. 
Name of the subjects already 
cleared 
Grades 
Obtained  
Sr. 
No. 
Name of the subjects already 
cleared 
Grades 
Obtained  
1   8   
2   9   
3   10   
4   11   
5   12   
6   13   
7   14   
 
5. NMIMS Course Choice (Final) 
 
Exchange program at NMIMS for your: Trimester/Semester _____ Month ______to _______Year  
 
Courses for Tri/Semester  Courses for Tri/Semester  Courses for Tri/Semester 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
6. Declaration  
I _________________________________ declare that all information filled by me in this form is correct and I will complete  
(First name     Middle name   Last name) 
all the requirements, with full engagement in academic matters, like all other students  in the NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University.  
 
I undertake to keep the School informed about details of my all travel outside Mumbai and will abide by the prescribed code of 
conduct by the NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University. 
 
 
 
Signature of the Student: _____________________________ Date _____________ 
 
 
 
 
(Signature of Dean/Director/HOD) 
CC. Director – International Linkages

=== page 43 ===
40 
 
Annexure 3 
APPLICATION FORM – NMIMS EXCHANGE STUDENTS 
(Applicable for Student Exchange) 
 
 
 
 Name of School: _______________________________________ 
 
 
1. Personal Information 
Name of the Student __________________________________    Roll No.__________  
  First  name   Middle name   Last name 
 
Nationality ______________ Gender  M                  F          Date of Birth  ___________(d/m/y) 
Passport No. ______________Issued at ( Place ) ___________ Date of Expiry ___________________  
 
Local Address : 
Name _________________________________________________________________________________                                                                                   
Address ________________________________________________________________________________  
  _______________________________________________________________________________________  
Phone No __________________________      Email ___________________________________________  
 
Permanent Address: 
Name ___________________________________________________________________________________  
Address _________________________________________________________________________________  
_________________________________________________________________________________________  
Phone no. ( R )_____________________             Phone no. ( M )_____________________ 
 
Person to be contacted in case of emergency: 
Name ___________________________________Relation_________________________________________  
Address__________________________________________________________________________________ 
__________________________________________________________________________________________  
Phone No. ___________________________ Email ID ___________________________________________ 
 
Do you have any relatives / friends/ contacts at the Host University / Country? If yes, pl provide the details:  
Name __________________________________________Relation ________________________________  
Address_________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________  
Phone No. ___________________________ Email ID ___________________________________________  
 
Medical Insurance details : 
Insurer ___________________Policy No. __________________Contact person__________________  
 
Blood group __________________ Vaccination Details ________________________________________  
 
Any medical problem, which you would like to mention to us: 
 _________________________________________________________________________________________  
 
Any medication you have been prescribed to take: _________________________________________  
 
2. School, Place & Duration for which selected from NMIMS Deemed-to-be University: 
______________________________________________________________________________________  
Semester/ Trimester _____________________________________________________________________  
 
Sr. 
No. 
Name of the subjects opted for 
Exchange Program  
Sr. No. Name of the subjects opted for Exchange 
Program 
1  6  
2  7  
3  8  
4  9  
5  10  
 
 
 
 
Photo

=== page 44 ===
41 
 
3. Declaration  
I, _________________________________ student of Full Time _______________ (Program Name)  
from batch of year __________ and Roll No. ___________ is going for the International Student Exchange program in the 
Semester/Trimester _______. 
 
I have gone through the Student Exchange Policy document and Student Resource Book and have volunteered to join the exchange 
program of my own will and with the consent of my parents/ guardian. I will adhere to the rules and regulations of the host university. 
My parents/guardian are informed of the details of the program, the schedule and the code of conduct expected during the stay  at 
the foreign institute and they are in full agreement with the terms of this exchange program. I undertake to keep my Schoo l 
/parents/guardian/family informed about details of my travel, my stay and my whereabouts and well -being during my stay.   
 
I promise to uphold the values and honour of the NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University and fulfill my responsibilities as a student and 
treat everyone with dignity and respect. I hereby declare that I have clearly understood & will follow the instructions given fr om 
time to time and in case of a violation, not adhering to the expected code, I will be liable to suitable action as per SVKM’S NMIMS 
Deemed-to-be-University rules. 
 
I declare that all information filled by me in this form is  correct and will complete all the requirements, with full engagement in 
academic matters, like all other students on the college campus.  
 
I hereby agree to abide by the rules and regulations expected during the entire program.  
 
 
___________________________              _____________________ 
Name & Signature of the student        Date 
 
Mobile Phone Number: ____________ (Self)   _____________ (Parents/Guardian)  
 
 
___________________________________ 
(Signature of Dean/Director/HOD) 
 
CC. Director – International Linkages with Enclosures 
 
Enclosures: 
1. Photocopy of Passport  
2. Photocopy of Visa  
3. Photocopy of medical insurance  
4. Ticket details – Photocopy of Ticket

=== page 45 ===
42 
 
Annexure 4 
 
UNDERTAKING 
(Applicable for Student Exchange) 
 
To 
SVKM’S NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University 
School of ___________________ 
Mumbai 
 
Sub: Travelling to a Foreign University as part of a Foreign exchange program 
 
 
I, _________________________________ student of Full Time _______________ (Course Name) from 
batch of year __________ and Roll No. ___________ is going for a foreign exchange program in the semester 
_______. 
 
I have gone through the Student Exchange Policy document and Student Resource Book and have volunteered 
to join the exchange program of my own will and with the consent of my parents/ guardian. I will adhere to 
all rules and regulations of the host university. My parents/guardian are informed about the details of the 
program, the schedule and the code of conduct expected during the stay at the foreign institute and they are in 
full agreement with the terms of this exchange program. I undertake to keep my institute 
/parents/guardian/family informed about de tails of my travel, my stay and my whereabouts and well -being 
during my stay.   
 
I promise to uphold the values and honour of the NMIMS Deemed -to-be-University and fulfi ll my 
responsibilities as a student and treat everyone with dignity and respect. I here by declare that I have clearly 
understood & will follow the instructions given from time to time and in case of a violation, not adhering to 
the expected code, I will be liable to suitable action as per SVKM’S NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University rules. 
 
I hereby agree to abide by the rules and regulations expected during the entire program.  
 
 
___________________________              _____________________ 
Name & Signature of the student        Date 
 
 
___________________________              _____________________ 
Name & Signature of the Parent   Date 
Mobile Phone Number: __________ (Self)   _____________ (Parents/Guardian)

=== page 46 ===
43 
 
 
 
Annexure 5 
Student Exchange Programme (for Visa Office) 
 
(School Letter Head) 
 
Dated __________________. 
 
To: 
The Visa Section 
The Indian High Commission 
___________________ (City) 
___________________ (Country) 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
This is to certify that Mr/Ms.  ______________ , Student of   _____________(Intl School) has been accepted as an 
exchange student into Semester/Trimester _____ _ of our prestigious  full -time program, 
_________________________________(Program Name). 
 
The teaching program for Semester/ Trimesters will be held from ____________(Date) to 
___________________(Date). The student will be attending classes with other ful l-time students enrolled in the 
program and may also undertake some field projects in local companies on a non-remunerative basis. 
 
We would request you to grant ________________(Name) the necessary student’s visa. 
 
 
Thanking you, 
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
 
Dean 
(School Name & Address) 
(Phone no & email)

=== page 47 ===
44 
 
 
Student Exchange Programme (for Visa Application) 
 
(School Letter Head) 
 
Dated_____________________ 
 
 
To: 
The Consul General of __________________ 
_______________ Consulate/ Embassy 
Mumbai, India 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
This is to certify that Mr/Ms __________________________ is a _____ year student of our 
_____________________________ program. She/He has been selected to visit ______________ (Institute name) at 
___________ (City), ____________ (Country) campus as an exchange student during the spring/fall semester from 
________(date) to __________(date).   
 
We have no objection to Ms/Mr. _____________________ visiting ________ (Country) and other states/countries in 
USA/Europe (Pl strike).  We request you to provide him with the required assistance and process his/her papers at your 
earliest convenience. 
 
Thanking you, 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
DEAN 
(School Name & Address) 
(Phone no & email)

=== page 48 ===
45 
 
 
UNDERTAKING For Foreign National Studying at NMIMS University 
(Applicable for Student Exchange) 
 
To 
SVKM’S NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University 
School of ___________________ 
Mumbai 
 
Sub: Arrived from ------------------- Partner University Abroad as part of Students exchange program 
 
 
I, _________________________________ student of ---------------Partner University studying Full Time 
_______________ (Course Name) from batch of year __________ have Joined___________Course at ----------School 
through international student exchange program in the semester/Trimester _______. 
 
I have gone through the Student Exchange Policy document and Student Resource Book and have volunteered to join 
the exchange program of my own will and with the consent of my parents/ guardian. I will adhere to the rules and 
regulations laid down in the MoU between Partner University and NMIMS University. I undertake to keep my institute 
/parents/guardian/family informed about details of my travel, my stay, and my whereabouts and well-being during my 
stay.   
 
I will adhere to the local law of the country (India ) and will not involve or encourage any activity which may be a 
potential threat to the integrity, safety and solidarity of India during my stay in the country. 
 
I promise to uphold the values and honour of the NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University and fulfill my responsibilities as a 
student and treat everyone with dignity and respect. I hereby declare that I have clearly understood & will follow the 
instructions given from time to time and in case of a violation, not adhering to the expected code, I will be liabl e to 
suitable action as per SVKM’S NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University rules. 
 
I hereby agree to abide by the rules and regulations expected during the entire program.  
 
__________________________              _____________________ 
Name & Signature of the student        Date 
 
Mobile Phone Number: __________ (Self)   _____________  
 
 
Note :

=== page 49 ===
46 
 
Annexure 6 
 
Application for availing the facility of a Scribe/Writer during Examinations 
(To be submitted 7 days before the commencement of the Examination) 
For Office use:   
   
   
 Date:_________
_________ 
To, 
The Controller of Examination       
SVKM’s NMIMS (Deemed-to-be University)  
Vile Parle (W), Mumbai 400056  
 
Dear Sir,  
I wish to avail the facility of a Scribe/Writer during the Examination as per the below mentioned details: 
Name of the Student: _________________________________________ Mobile No.:_____________________ 
Name of the School: __________________________________________________________________________ 
Name of Program: _______________________Roll No.___________ Student No.:______________________ 
Academic Year: __________________________Trimester. /Semester: __________________ 
Type of Permanent /Temporary Physical Disability / Learning Disability: ________________ 
 
Permanent /Temporary Physical Disability / Learning Disability 
 
Details of Scribe being arranged by the undersigned 
Name of the scribe: _______________________________________________________ 
 
Educational Qualification (with proof - Identity card of the current academic year): _______________ 
 
Address and Contact No.:____________________________________________________________________ 
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
________________________________                                                             _______________________ 
Signature of the Student                   Date 
Enclosed: Medical Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner with the rubber stamp  
Approved by (Exam. Dept)

=== page 50 ===
47 
 
Annexure 7 
Application for Duplicate Fee Receipt 
 
Sir/Madam, 
 
Kindly issue me a Duplicate Fee receipt, since I have lost my Original Fee receipt. 
Please find the particulars as under: 
 
Fee Receipt:   Year: ________   Hostel Fee Receipt:  Year: ________  
 
Name: ____________________________________________________________________  
  (Surname)   (Name)  (Middle Name) 
 
Course: ______________________________ Academic Year: _________________ 
 
Student Number __________________________________Roll No. _____________ 
 
Thanking You, 
  
Yours Faithfully, 
 
 
_____________________ 
(Student’s Signature) 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  
 
DUPLICATE FEE RECEIPTS WILL BE ISSUED AFTER 7 DAYS ON: 
 
Office Remarks: 
 
Receipt No: ________________ Date: ______________ for Rs.100/- 
 
 
__________________ 
(Receiver’s Signature)

=== page 51 ===
48 
 
                                                                REFUND FORM                                                           Annexure 8 
           Date: ___________ 
 
• Excess Fees 
• Excess Deposit  
• Hostel Deposit 
(Please indicate as applicable) 
 
• SAP No. / Student No.  
• Student’s  Name  
• Student’s Address  
• Student’s contact number  
• School Name and Course   
• Email ID of the student  
 
Particulars of my bank for RTGS of the refundable amount are 
Account holder's Name:                        (Only 
student or parent's A/c information should be 
given.)   
Account No.:   
Bank Name:   
Bank Branch:   
IFSC:   
MICR:   
 
• Copy of Cancelled Cheque attached of the above mentioned Bank account n o.  (Without a Copy of the cancelled cheque 
refund will not be processed.) 
 
(Signature of Student) 
Attachments Required 
 
• Excess Fees/Excess Deposit Refund 
o Excess Fees/Excess Deposit - Original Receipt along with a photocopy of Fees Receipt/Deposit Receipt. 
 
• Hostel Deposit Refund 
o Original Hostel Deposit Receipt signed by Hostel-in-charge & Mr. Venugopal. 
  
• Laboratory Deposit Refund 
o Original Laboratory Deposit Receipt signed by Laboratory In-Charge/Dean. 
o

=== page 52 ===
49 
 
Annexure 9 
SVKM’S NARSEE MONJEE INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT STUDIES 
 
APPLICATION FOR MIGRATION CERTIFICATE 
 
1.  Name: _________________________________________ 
 
2.  Address for Correspondence: ______________________________________ 
                                                     ______________________________________ 
                                                     ______________________________________ 
3.  Permanent address: ______________________________________________ 
                                      ______________________________________________ 
                                      _______________________________________________ 
4.   Contact No. :( M)  _________________ (R) ___________________ Email Id:__________________________ 
 
5.   Birth Date: ____________________ 
 
6.   Date of leaving: _________________ 
 
7.   Details of the Examination passed from this university  
 
 
Examinations 
 
 
Year of passing 
 
Roll no 
 
Results 
    
 
 
 
 
8.  Name of the University where the student 
      Proposes to register his / her name and the 
      Name of the course.                                 _________________________________ 
 
9.  Name of the Institution where the  
     Student proposes to join                           __________________________________ 
 
DECLARATION BY THE STUDENT 
 
I hereby declare that I have not applied before for the Migration Certificate. 
 
I further declare that I have not registered myself for any course in any other University other than the one which I am 
now interested in to register myself as stated in column 7 above. 
 
 
Date: ___________________                                         ________________________ 
 
Mumbai 400056                                                                  (Signature of the student) 
          
Note :- Please attach the Photocopy of Final Year Mark sheet & Degree Certificate along with the application. 
P.T.O.

=== page 53 ===
50 
 
FOR OFFICE USE 
 
 
1.  Whether the Migration Certificate was              _____________________________ 
Issued to him / her before? 
     If so, State the purpose for which it was obtained.                                                   
 
2.  If the Migration Certificate was not utilized     _____________________________ 
     State the approximate date and the year when                
     It was returned to the Institute for Cancellation.    
 
3.  Date on which Migration Certificate was issued ____________________________ 
     By the Institution last attended by the applicant. 
 
4. Other Particulars if necessary: ___________________________________________ 
 
 
The applicant has not been rusticated or debarred by the Institute, and I have no objection to a Migration Certificate 
being granted to him / her by the Institute. 
 
He / She has been a student of __________since, _________, 20 
And left in  ___________20    . 
 
I have ascertained  and satisfied from the records that no application for a Migration Certificate on behalf of this 
candidate was made previous to this date. 
 
                     _____________________ 
    (Signature of Head of the Dept) 
 
Place : _______________ 
 
Date : _______________ 
 
 
DETAILS OF MIGRATION CERTIFICATE ISSUED 
 
Certificate No: ______________                                                   Date: ______________ 
 
                                                                                   ________________________ 
                                                                           (Signature of the Person of In – Charge) 
________________________________________________________________________ 
 
INSTRUCTION TO THE STUDENT 
*  The Prescribed fee of Rs. 300/- for the Migration Certificate should invariably be sent along with the application for 
Migration Certificate by Demand Draft drawn in favour of the SVKM’s  N.M.I.M.S.  payable at Mumbai.  The fees 
may be paid by cash in the Accounts Office along with the application. 
*  Fee for the Migration Certificate is accepted between 10.00 am to 5.00 pm on weekdays except on Sundays, Bank 
Holidays.

=== page 54 ===
51 
 
Annexure 10 
Clearance Certificate 
Date: ____________ 
 
Name: ____________________________________________________________Contact No. _____________ 
Student SAP No. _________________________   Roll No. _____________ 
Programme:________________________________________   Semester / Trimester _____________________ 
 
Department Name of the Concerned Person Signature 
 
Head of the Dept / Program 
Chairperson / Program co-ordinator  
Library ( Books ) Librarian / Person In-charge  
Hostel                                                
Applicable only for Hostellers 
Dy. Registrar (Admn) /  
Person In-charge 
 
IT / Computer Centre Director (IT) / Person In-charge  
Admissions 
Deputy Registrar (Admission) / or 
Person In-charge  
 
Examinations 
COE / Deputy COE /  
Person In-charge  
 
 
Accounts 
 
Finance Controller / Additional 
Finance Controller / Person In-charge 
 
 
 
 
Course Coordinator    Deputy Registrar / Assistant Registrar                       Dean / Director

=== page 55 ===
52 
 
Annexure 11 
(If applicable) 
 
Undertaking by Students (HBS Cases/ Articles) 
 
“To make the students aware of  the use of Harvard Cases and Articles (watermarked copy on Students Portal) and be 
aware of the SVKM’S NMIMS regulations, the following Undertaking Form is introduced, which should be signed 
by students. The same should be submitted to the concerned Department on the day of starting of classes.” 
 
            I, Mr / Miss ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- bearing login ID --------------------
---- joining for ------- trimester/semester for the academic year -------- in NMIMS School of ------------------ do hereby 
undertake and abide by the following terms, and I will bring the ACKNOWLEDGEMENT duly signed by me on the 
re-opening day, …………………..  at the College. 
• I will never Remove or alter or tamper with the authors' names, watermarks or HBP copyright notices, or 
other means of identification or disclaimers as they appear in the Content digitally or otherwise. 
• I will never Upload or distribute any part of the Content on any electronic network, including the Internet and 
the World Wide Web, other than as specified in the user agreement. 
• I will not Make the Content available in any other form or medium or create derivative works without the 
written permission of NMIMS/ HBP.  
• I will not cause or involve in Publishing, distributing or making available the Content, works based on the 
Content or works which combine the Content with any other content, other than as permitted in the User 
Agreement 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
I have gone through carefully the terms of the above undertaking and understand that following these are for 
my own benefit and improvement. I also understand that if I fail to comply with th ese terms; will be liable to 
suitable action as per SVKM’S NMIMS rules and law. I undertake that I will strictly follow the above terms. 
 
Signature: ___________________ 
 
Name: 
__________________________________________________________________________________ 
                               (First Name)                         (Middle Name)                             (Last Name) 
 
Program:……………………………………………………………………………………… 
 
Roll Number: _______________Email ID: 
_________________________________________________ 
 
For Office Use: 
Date of Receipt:_________________ 
 
Signature of Course Coordinator:

=== page 56 ===
53 
 
Annexure 12 
OFFICE COPY 
 
Student Undertaking with Respect to the Student Guidelines 
(Submit this form to your Course Coordinator within 7 days from receipt of the Student Resource Book) 
 
 
I, ________________________________________________________ have read the Student Guidelines of 
SVKM’S NMIMS, School of ---------------------- enclosed carefully and have understood its contents and their 
ramifications. I will always uphold the values and honour of the school of------------------------, NMIMS. I promise 
to fulfill my responsibilities as a student and a human being and treat my colleagues, Staff and Faculty with dignity 
and respect. I hereby declare that I will follow the Student Guidelines and in case of a violation, consent to action, 
in accordance with the Management’s decision. 
I hereby agree to abide by the rules and regulations of SVKM’S NMIMS in my role as a participant in this program. 
I agree that NMIMS has the right to make any changes as it may deem fit in terms of the program content, method 
of delivery, faculty, refund policy, evaluation norms, standard of passing, Guidelines, etc. I also agree that in case 
of any dispute or differences about the program, the decision of the Vice-Chancellor of SVKM’S NMIMS will be 
final and binding on all the participants.  
I understand that if I adopt any unfair means in the admission process and during program, then my admission will 
be cancelled and all fees paid will be forfeited. 
 
 
Student’s Signature: _________________                                        Parent’s Signature: ___________________  
 
Name: ___________________________________________________________________________________  
                   (First Name)                       (Middle Name)                             (Last Name) 
 
Date of Birth: (dd/mm/yy) _______________________ Student SAP No._____________________________  
 
Roll Number: _______________ Programme:___________________________________________________  
 
Email ID: ________________________________________ Contact Nos._______________/_______________  
 
Address for Correspondence:  
__________________________________________________________________________________________  
__________________________________________________________________________________________  
__________________________________________________________________________________________  
 
Name of the parent _____________________________Contact Nos: _______________/________________  
 
Office No: ___________________   Residence No.: __________________ Mobile: ______________________  
Parent’s email ID ____________________________________________________________________________  
 
For Office Use :  
 
Date of Receipt: __________________         Signature of Course Coordinator ___________________

=== page 57 ===
SVKM'S
NMIMS
Deee--leUNIVERSITY
NMIMSAnthem
We do what's rightandnot what's easy
WegMeourbestshot eachandevery Ume We set the standard
We are the future
Wearea part ofthis institute so fine
NMIMSNMIMS
NMIMSNMIMS
Resped the past
Create the future
Transcend horizons however far
We have what it takes
Wemakea greatteam
AtNMiMs each oneisastar.
NMIMSNMIMS
NMIMSNMIMS
54

=== page 58 ===
SVKM'S  SVKM'S
NMIMS  Narsee Monjee Institute ofManagement Studies
DSEUNIVERSITY  Deemed-to-beUNIVERSITY
art II
Mukesh Patel School of Technology
Management & Engineering

=== page 59 ===
Message from Dean 
 
 
 
 
Dear Student, 
Welcome to the Mukesh  Patel School of Technology, Management and Engineering, SVKM's Deemed to be 
NMIMS University! 
As you embark on your journey as student engineers, I extend my warmest welcome to each of you. This is an 
exciting time filled with new possibilities, challenges, and opportunities for growth. 
At NMIMS, we are committed to providing you with an exceptional educational experience that prepares you 
for the real world. Our curriculum is designed to equip you with the essential skills and knowledge to become 
successful engineers who can make a positive impact on the world. 
Our approach to engineering education is rooted in the belief that engineers are not just problem solvers, but also 
creators and innovators. You will be challenged to think critically, analyze complex systems, and design creative 
solutions that address real-world challenges. You will also have the opportunity to put your ideas into practice 
through hands-on projects, internships, and research experiences. 
Remember, being a student engineer is not just about acquiring technical knowledge. It's also about developing 
essential professional skills such as communication, teamwork, ethical awareness, and a commitment to lifelong 
learning. These skills are crucial for success in any engineering career. 
As you navigate your academic journey, I encourage you to take full advantage of the resources and support 
systems available to you. Our dedicated faculty and staff are committed to your success and will provide guidance 
and mentorship throughout your time here. 
I also encourage you to embrace the vibrant campus life and engage in extracurricular activities that will broaden 
your horizons and help you develop your personal and professional skills. 
This is a time for you to dream big, set ambitious goals, and wor k diligently to achieve them. Remember, your 
journey as a student engineer is just beginning. With hard work, dedication, and a commitment to excellence, 
you can achieve anything you set your mind to. 
Welcome to the NMIMS family! We are excited to have you  on board and look forward to witnessing your 
success. 
Best wishes, 
Dean, Mukesh Patel School of Technology, Management and Engineering 
SVKM's Deemed to be NMIMS University

=== page 60 ===
Content 
 
Sr. No. Details Page No. 
 PART – II   
1.  General Guidelines 1 
2.  Placement Guidelines 4 
3.  Guidelines for International Student Exchange Program 6 
4.  Examination Guidelines (ICA / TEE, Passing Criteria, Grading system, method of calculation of 
CGPA, Re-Examination, exceptional cases – medical etc.) 7 
5.  List of E resources subscribed by NMIMS 13 
6.  Course Structures & Guidelines   14 - 58 
7.  Academic Calendar 59 
8.  List of Holidays For The Year 2022 60 
9.  People you should know 61

=== page 61 ===
1 
 
1. General Guidelines   
 
 All students are expected to be professionally dressed and groomed to maintain decency and decorum of the 
“profession”.  For girl students, off shoulder tops/spaghetti tops/crop tops/transparent dress/shorts are strictly 
not allowed. 
 The use of cell phones in class rooms /laboratories is strictly prohibited. Strict action will be taken against 
students using cell phones in the class room/laboratories. 
 Misconduct of any sort from any student will be dealt with strictly. Any student resorting to any indecent, unruly 
behaviour or found causing disturbance, annoyance or raising voice for any reason which results in irritating or 
disturbing any other person, shall be considered as ‘misconduct’ and will be dealt with accordingly. 
 
1.1 Academic Guidelines 
The school uses Learning Management System (LMS) for smooth conduction of academic and administrative  
activities.  
 
Student Portal is available to get updates on the following: 
(i) Notices 
(ii) Daily Attendance 
(iii) Internal Continuous Assessment 
(iv) Examination 
(v) Teaching Scheme and Syllabus  
(vi) Any announcements related to student activities 
 
Students are advised to check the student portal regularly for updates. 
 
URL: https://portal.svkm.ac.in/usermgmt/login  
For more details, refer to Part I, item 13  
 
Contact hours and credit details are as follows: - From Part I 
 
Details Credit Equivalence in hrs. 
per week 
Total Hours in 15 weeks 
of a Semester 
Class room teaching 1 1 15 
Lab/presentation of work 1 2 30 
Tutorial 1 1 15 
 
Credits for Internship / In-Plant Training and Projects of MBA Tech., B. Tech. and Diploma programs are as per the 
approved Teaching scheme. 
 
1.2 Program Validity 
 
In continuation to the re -admission rules explained in Part I of this SRB, the ma ximum duration permissible for 
completion of each of the programmes is mentioned in the table below:  
 
S. No.  
 
Name of the 
programme  
Duration of the 
programme (in years)  
Maximum duration permissible for 
completion the programme (in years)  
1 MBA Tech 5 7 
2 B Tech 4 6 
3 Diploma 3 6 
4 M Tech 2 4 
5 MCA 2 4

=== page 62 ===
2 
 
 
1.3 Discipline Norms and Penalty 
 
In continuation to the Discipline Norms and Penalty explained  in Part I of this SRB, the names of committee 
members of the school are as follows: 
 
1.3.1 Anti-Ragging Committee 
 
1. Dr. Koteswararao Anne Chairperson Koteswararao.Anne@nmims.edu 42334008 
2. Dr. Dhirendra  Mishra Member Secretary Dhirendra.Mishra@nmims.edu 9867676425 
3. Dr. Geetha Iyer Member Geetha.Iyer@nmims.edu 9819757189 
4. Mr. Dilip Varhadi Member (Police) juhupolicestation@gmail.com 9870458518 
5. Mrs. Nyla Masood NGO nylamas@gmail.com 9820087571 
6. Ms. Vaishali Gangan Parent Member vaishaligangan@gmail.com 9819344849 
7. Dr. Ajay Phirke Member Ajay.phirke@nmims.edu 9619993107 
8. Ms. Anjali Barmukh Member Anjali.Barmukh@nmims.edu 9820031359 
9. Bhagyashree Birje Member (Lady 
Representative) bhagyashree.birje010@nmims.edu.in 8104596316 
10. Shubham Tanna Student Member shubham.tanna001@nmims.edu 9987415701 
11. Aayush Mahamunkar Student Member aayush.mahamunkar056@nmims.edu.in 9821668414 
 
 
Anti-Ragging Squad 
1. Dr. V.R. Lakshmigorty Member VR.Lakshmigorty@nmims.edu 9757075048 
2. Prof. Samadhan Deshmukh Member Secretary Samadhan.Deshmukh@nmims.edu 9004392646 
3. Prof. Rodrigues Anjana Member Anjana.Rodrigues@nmims.edu 9967903565 
4. Dr. Vinita Khatri Member Vinita.Khatri@nmims.edu 9757305047 
5. Prof. Sumita Nainan Member Sumita.Nainan@nmims.edu 9867753210 
6. Mr. Ravikumar Bellary Member Ravikumar.Bellary@nmims.edu 9819660202 
7. Ananya Tyagi Student Member  ananya.tyagi146@nmims.edu.in 9371183583 
 
1.3.2 Disciplinary Committee 
1. Dr. Dhirendra  Mishra Convener Dhirendra.Mishra@nmims.edu 9867676425 
2. Dr. Siba Panda Member Siba.Panda@nmims.edu 8080616910 
3. Dr. Ketan Shah Member ketan.shah@nmims.edu 9892793545 
4. Dr. Vaishali Kulkarni Member Vaishali.Kulkarni@nmims.edu 9920668187 
5. Dr. Geetha Iyer Member Geetha.Iyer@nmims.edu 9819757189 
6. Ms. Anjali Barmukh Member Anjali.Barmukh@nmims.edu 9820031359 
 
1.3.3 Woman Grievance Redressal Committee 
1. Dr. Archana Bhise Chairperson archana.bhise@nmims.edu 9819300924 
2. Dr. Ashwini Rao Member Secretary Ashwini.Rao@nmims.edu 8652266591 
3. Prof. Swati Donde Member Swati.Donde@nmims.edu 9967647920 
4. Dr. Jinu Kurian Member Jinu.Kurian@nmims.edu 9833952219 
5. Prof. Prasad Gharat Member Prasad.Gharat@nmims.edu 9820675266 
6. Adhya Khandelwal Member (Lady Representative) adhya.khandelwal065@nmims.edu.in 7024389444 
7. Shivani Singh Student Member shivani.singh162@nmims.edu.in 7506424799

=== page 63 ===
3 
 
1.3.4 Departmental Student Grievance Redressal Committee 
 
 
1.3.5 Collegiate / Institutional Student Grievance Redressal Committee 
 
 
1.4 Internal Complaints Committee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 B Tech     
1. Dr Meenal Mategaonkar Chairperson Meenal.mategaonkar@nmims.edu 9323141646 
2. Prof. Kiran Desai Member Kiran.Desai@nmims.edu 9821757579 
3. Dr Pravin Srinath Member Pravin.Srinath@nmims.edu 9167658212 
4. Dr. Sumita Nainan Member sumita.nainan@nmims.edu 9867753210 
5. Mr. Sudarshan Bhange Member Sudarshan.Bhange@nmims.edu 9769690555 
6. Yash Shah Student Representative yash.shah033@nmims.edu.in 8104432328 
 MBA Tech    
1. Dr. Geetha Iyer Chairperson Geetha.Iyer@nmims.edu 9819757189 
2. Prof. Prasad Gharat Member Prasad.Gharat@nmims.edu 9820675266 
3. Ms. Vidya Raul Member Vidya.Raul@nmims.edu 9823832968 
4. Prof. Rejo Mathew Member Rejo.mathew@nmims.edu 9833240117 
5. Bhagyashree Birje Student Representative  bhagyashree.birje010@nmims.edu.in 8104596316 
6. Dr. Geetha Iyer Chairperson Geetha.Iyer@nmims.edu 9819757189 
 Diploma    
1. Dr. Ajay Phirke Chairperson Ajay.phirke@nmims.edu 9619993107 
2. Dr Manoj Sankhe Member Manoj.Sankhe@nmims.edu 9819941828 
3. Dr Ravi Terkar Member Ravi.Terkar@nmims.edu 9322730001 
4. Mr. Prachin Patil Member Prachin.patil@nmims.edu 9869512435 
1. Dr. Koteswararao Anne Chairperson Koteswararao.Anne@nmims.edu 42334008 
2. Dr. Vaishali Kulkarni Member Secretary Vaishali.Kulkarni@nmims.edu 9920668187 
3. Dr Meenal Mategaonkar Member Meenal.mategaonkar@nmims.edu 9323141646 
4. Dr Dhirendra Mishra Member dhirendra.Mishra@nmims.edu  
5. Dr. Nishita Parekh Member  nishita.parekh@nmims.edu 7021544512 
6. Prof Dattatray Sawant Member dattatray.sawant@nmims.edu 9769446447 
7. Bhagyashree Birje Member (Lady 
Representative) 
bhagyashree.birje010@nmims.edu.i
n 8104596316 
8. Jeet Shah Student Representative jeet.shah86@nmims.edu.in 9082909144 
1. Dr. Archana Bhise Chairperson archana.bhise@nmims.edu 9819300924 
2. Dr. Abhay Kumar Member Secretary abhay.kumar@nmims.edu 9371533461 
3. Dr Ashish Deshmukh Member Ashish.Deshmukh@nmims.edu 9892198501 
4. Prof Sheetal Gonsalves Member  Sheetal.Gonsalves@nmims.edu 9820360483 
5. Mrs. Nyla Masood NGO nylamas@gmail.com 9820087571 
6. Ms Aparna Mahesh Member Aparna.Mahesh@nmims.edu 9820593587

=== page 64 ===
4 
 
 
2. Placement Guidelines 
 
The MPSTME was established to create an innovative space for technology education and management practices aligned 
with industry and societal needs. The goal is to offer a comprehensive platform for engineers to integrate their knowledge 
into creating technology that addresses the changing needs of today's world. 
  
The MPSTME placements team guides students for landing a role aligned with their aspirations and taking their first steps 
in the corporate world. 
 
Placement assistance is offered to students of various programs across all campuses. The Plac ement Office facilitates the 
process of placements – internship and recruitment by creating an interface between recruiters and students. Efforts are 
made to market the programs with their merits with an endeavour to get companies to offer internships/recr uit students. 
The selection process specified by the company is followed. The PlaceCom - Placement Committee of students is actively 
involved in the placement activities – contacting/visiting companies located in metros and major cities for placement 
presentations and also coordinate various activities during the placement processes.    
 
The Placement Office devises placement guidelines that are in the larger interest of the School and students, in consultation 
with students and faculty.  Students are expect ed to maintain decorum and abide by the guidelines during placement 
processes. In the event of non-conformance to the placement guidelines, the School reserves the right to initiate corrective 
action.   
 
The Placement process typically involves – 
 Batch Preparation          
 Pre Placement Talks  
 Internships/Projects       
 Final Placements  
 
2.1 Batch Preparation 
The Comprehensive Batch Preparation Program is to enhance the suitability of candidates and orient them to industry 
practices and expectations. 
a. Alumni and industry expert sessions provide valuable insights for students, helping them understand their roles 
in the industry, company expectations, future career prospects, interview techniques, and firsthand experiences 
in various roles.  
b. Assigning faculty mentors to guide students.  
c. Interaction with seniors who have undergone internships and are working full time to gain insights of the corporate 
world. 
d. Mock interviews with alumni/corporates to get a direct feedback from people in relevant industries.  
e. Guest talks and workshops on various topics from corporates.  
f. Resume building as per guidelines and vetting by faculty mentors. 
g. Training modules covering Aptitude, Technical and Employability Skills.  
 
2.1.1 The placement team advises students to take part in placement p rep training modules in order to boost their 
likelihood of being chosen for campus selection 
2.1.2 Prior to the commencement of the selection process it is expected that students should be having a fair idea about 
their interest, sector and specialization or at least have some long term vision of where they want to be and 
should direct their efforts accordingly. A bit of clarity will help students land a good internship/job.  
2.1.2 Hence students should do a thorough research about the company, the business, the sector , other players in the 
sector, the technologies, the services or products, the financials etc. and be prepared with a background and fact 
file prior to the process. Also some additional information – the number of interns/recruits in the past, whether 
the company has a PPO policy, the roles offered, the experience of seniors who interned / worked with the 
company etc. will be of help.       
2.1.3 The Placement Office also involves companies in a number of Campus Engagement activities – contests, 
projects, workshops, seminars, guest talks etc. that would benefit a larger number of students and also help in 
promoting the excellent quality of the batch. 
2.1.4 Based on the guidelines, students will have to prepare their resume that would encapsula te information about 
academics, projects, certifications, technical skills, internship, co-curricular activities, extracurricular activities, 
awards, achievements, hobbies etc.

=== page 65 ===
5 
 
  
2.1 Pre-Placement Talk – PPT 
PPTs are used by company officials to share information and answer student s' questions. This helps them assess the 
student pool confidently. Students are encouraged to participate and ask relevant questions . 
 
2.2 Internships/Projects 
2.3.1 The Placement Office makes all efforts to reach out for internships across varied sectors, companies  and 
profiles. Based on ones’ interests and capabilities one should seek internships. Choosing the correct 
company for internships and performing up to the mark is of utmost importance.  
2.3.2 The Internships are not only a window to the corporate world but also  a relationship -building tool. It 
allows the companies  to have a look at the talent, thereby strengthening Final Placements.  
2.3.3 Internships are an integral part of the curriculum for securing the degree. It is a great learning platform for 
our students and goes a long way in shaping the learning obtained in the classroom. This experience is of 
immense use to students to enable them to acclimatize themselves to the intricacies of the corporate world.  
2.3.4 The project is expected to build on the theoretical learnin g with practical experience and help students to 
identify the gaps in their learning, which they can attempt to fill in.  
2.3.5 Interactions during the internships both with other interns as well as employees help students to understand 
the expectations/needs of the organisation, the sector in general, to identify the gaps in their learning and 
in orienting oneself towards the sector and developing the required skill sets to emerge as the most suitable 
candidate.  
2.3.6 Internships also hold a special significance as i t is an apt mechanism for companies to spot bright talent 
early. Many companies have structured internship process which is used as a ‘testing ground’ to gain a 
direct understanding of the skill and ability of students leading to declaration of PPO’s/PPI’s . We 
encourage candidates to work towards such offers that are based on internship performance.  
2.3.7 Pre Placement Offer (PPO) is an Offer by the company to the intern acknowledging the excellent work 
done during the internship. Pre Placement Interview (PPI) is an opportunity by the company for the intern 
to be directly selected for the interview for final placements. Thus, the students should be careful in 
applying to the companies of their choice and should put in all efforts to convert the internship into an  
Offer. Thus, the seriousness of this cannot be overstated. 
2.3.8 Internship duration for B Tech, and MCA – entire semester (during last semester of the year). MBA Tech 
Program has 2 internships, Technical Internship post 6 Semester -8 weeks and Management Inter nship 
post 8th Semester – 16 weeks. Internship Placement Guidelines will be shared by the Placement Cell prior 
to the Placement season.  Students should go through the Guidelines thoroughly and adhere to the same. 
While feedback from the company is sought, the internship is also evaluated by the School that could 
involve faculty guide monitoring the performance;  periodic report submissions, evaluations, Viva Voce  
etc.  
  
2.4 Final Placements 
2.4.1 Leading companies across sectors aspire to recruit students of MPSTME. Each company has its own set of 
 characteristics or qualities that they look for in a candidate. Hence, the company devises the eligibility  
 criteria and selection process accordingly.  
2.4.2 The process of selection starts with inviting applications based on the eligibility, profile, job description, 
 compensation details shared by the company. The student applications are then sent to companies for further 
 shortlisting. Students are required to check their emails/Placement Portal/Student Portal, etc. regularly  for 
 information updates.  
2.4.3 Every effort will be made to facilitate the placement process. However, it is the effort of the student that  
gets him/her selected for the job.  
2.4.4 Companies could have one or multiple rounds for selection – case analysis, group discussion, group 
 exercises, aptitude test, technical test, coding test, psychometric assessment, interviews etc. Reasons like  
 location, family issues etc. should not be constraints to students. They are expected to be mobile and have  
 the capability to adjust and adapt and respond to emergent situations successfully.  
2.4.5 Students who do not wish to participate in the placement process are expected to formally notify the  
 Placement Office vide the ‘Opted Out Form’ mentioning the reason, which could be higher s tudies, 
 entrepreneurship, family business, preparation for public services exam, seeking placements on their own  
giving with the names of such companies and details. The reason being, to iron out any hitches that may  
crop up later as the Placement Office approaches many companies and would like to continue the cordial 
 relationship with them.      
 
       The Placement Department will share guidelines for resumes, presentations, internships, job offers, and final  
placements with the batch. The School reserves the right to modify the guidelines. Students must follow the internship 
and placement guidelines provided by the department before the process begins .

=== page 66 ===
6 
 
3. MPSTME International linkages 
  
The NMIMS Department of International Linkages (DIL) fosters partnerships with premier institutions around the 
world to enhance NMIMS standing as a world-class institution.  DIL has actively engaged with leading institutions 
around the world to foster student and faculty exchange, research collaboration and cross -cultural learning in line 
with the University’s Vision to be a globally admired University by 2030.  Under the Twining Agreements/ Dual 
Degree programs students study a part of their program at MPSTME, NMIMS and then go and complete the rest of 
the program at a partner University abroad. Students may apply and attend summer schools in universities abroad. 
Further details are available at https://engineering.nmims.edu/mpstme-international-linkages/.  Students can fill in 
the enquiry form on that website if they have any further queries. 
The Universities abroad with which MPSTME has MoUs are given below: 
  
MPSTME International Linkages 
 Virginia Tech, USA 
 Stevens Institute of Technology, USA  
 University of New South Wales, Australia 
 University of Buffalo (UB), USA 
 Hochschule Karlsruhe University of Applied Sciences 
 Binghamton University, USA  
 Cranfield University, UK 
 
  
  Contact Details: 
Name – Dr. Dhirendra Mishra 
Designation – Professor, Computer Engineering, Professor -in charge of International Relations, Chairperson, 
3+1+1 Coordinated Program in collaboration with Virgina Tech, USA 
Email ID - dhirendra.Mishra@nmims.edu

=== page 67 ===
7 
 
 
4. Examination Guidelines (Internal Continuous Assessment (ICA) / Term / Trimester / Semester End 
Examination (TEE/ SEE), Passing Criteria, Grading system, method of calculation of CGPA, Re -
Examination, exceptional cases – medical etc.) 
 
Examination weightages and credits: 
 
A student will undergo Internal Continuous Assessment (ICA) for each course/subject in all the semesters. Various 
components of such continuous assessment would be as decided by the respective course/subject teacher/ faculty and 
approved by the Dean /Director of the school/campus concerned. 
 
Break up for evaluation of each course will be as under: 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
4.1   PASSING STANDARDS FOR EACH COURSE (SUBJECT):  
Semester-end-exam Passing Criteria for each Course:  
 
To pass in a particular course, in any of the Term /Trimester / Semester End examination or re- examination, 
a student must fulfil all of the following criteria: 
 Secure a minimum of 40% marks in the Term /Trimester / Semester end examination of that course and  
 
 Secure a minimum of 40% aggregate marks out of the total marks (that is, internal continuous 
assessment plus assessment of the Term /Trimester / Semester end examination) allotted to the 
course. 
 
 For a course which has only internal continuous assessment component, passing will be at 40%. 
 
Students who fail to fulfil above passing criteria would be awarded ‘F’ grade.  
 
4.2 Non – fulfillment of Passing Criteria: 
 
A student, who has failed to fulfil the passing criteria as given above, will be required to ap pear for term / 
trimester / semester-end re-examination, which will be conducted immediately after declaration of results of the 
said regular term / trimester / semester-end examination. The internal continuous assessment marks for such 
courses will be carried forward for the term / trimester / semester-end re-examination.  
To be eligible to appear for term / trimester / semester -end re-examination, a student has to submit online re -
examination application available on student’s SAP portal. A student who do es not fill in online re -
examination form will be denied permission to appear at the re-examination.   
It is the responsibility of such students to keep him/ her informed about such examination dates (time table). If, in 
any case, student feels that he/she  wants to improve their ICA, he/ she will have to take re admission for the 
complete academic year. In case of re-admission, the earlier results will stand null & void and student cannot claim 
the credits of the course/s passed earlier. Student will have t o appear as a fresh candidate for both Internal 
Continuous Assessment & Term End Examinations. 
Only one re -examination will be conducted for each course immediately after declaration of results of final 
examination and there will not be any further re-examination for whatsoever reason (in an Academic Year). 
Remedial classes would be organized by the School for all the students who fail to fulfil the passing criteria, 
before the conduct of the re-examination. However these remedial classes will be on demand from students 
and if a student registers for remedial classes, he / she is expected to maintain 100% attendance. If any 
Component Marks 
ICA Components: Mid Term / Unit Test / Project/ Assignment / 
Presentation/ Weekly Tests / Case Study/ Quizzes / any other (School) 
 
50 
SEE – Term /Trimester / semester-end examination (University) 100 (scaled down 
to 50 marks) 
Total 100

=== page 68 ===
8 
 
student feels that he / she can manage without remedial classes, students can study on their own and appear 
for the re -examination, later on, such students cannot complaint, that their doubts were not cleared by 
faculty.  
Note: Remedial classes will be conducted by the faculty on demand, if number of students are more than 
10. Otherwise, students can get their doubts cleared from the faculty on one to one basis. 
 
5. Promotion/progression Rules and ATKT (Allowed to Keep Terms): B. Tech. /  MBA (Tech.)/ Diploma  
 
5.1 A student will be declared as pass in each year of the programme when he/ she has no F grade in an academic  
year after permissible re-examination/s. 
 
5.2 Student who has passed in all the courses/subjects (as per the criteria laid down hereinunder) of Semester I and  
               II examinations of the first academic year will be promoted to the second year of the concerned programme.    
               A student who has passed in all the subjects of Semester III and IV examinations of the second year will be  
               promoted to the third year of the concerned programme. A student who has passed in all the subjects of Semester  
               V and VI examinations of the third year will be promoted to the fourth year of the concerned programme.   
 Likewise, a student who has passed in all the subjects of Semester VII and VIII examinations of the fourth years      
will be promoted to the fifth year of the concerned programme (wherever applicable). Further;  
 
 
 As regards to the admission to the third year, students must have passed the examinations of all the 
courses/subjects of first year. Student should not have any F grade in the first year of the programme.  
 
 For admission to the fourth year, students must have passed the examinations of all the courses/subjects 
of second year. Student should not have any F grade in the second year of the programme.  
 
 Similarly, for admission to the fi fth year, students must have passed the examinations of all the 
courses/subjects of third year (wherever applicable).  Student should not have any F grade in the third 
year of the programme. 
 
5.3 A student who has failed to fulfill the passing criteria of odd semesters courses after re-examination, will be   
allowed to attend the classes and appear at the examination/ re-examination of even semesters.  For example, a 
student who fails in Semester I examination will be permitted to attend lectures and appear at Term-End 
examinations of Semester II. This criterion will apply to the subsequent years also.  Such students will be 
allowed to appear at term-end re-examination of the courses/subjects where the student has obtained ‘F’ grade. 
The internal assessment marks obtained by the students will be carried forward. Students are advised to keep 
track of the examination / re- examination timetables. The examination/ re examination time table are 
displayed on University website and also students portal. 
However, student progression to the subsequent year will be determined with reference to the following rule.  
 
5.4 A student who has obtained upto two ‘F’ grades in B Tech / MBA Tech/ Diploma  program in an academic year 
after the said re -examinations will also be allowed to e nter in the next year of the program. Such students will be 
required to appear for re -examinations of courses where the student concerned has obtained F grade during the 
related Semester-end examinations / re-examinations along-with the regular students of next year. 
 
5.5 Student, who has obtained more than two “F” grades in an academic year (including both the semesters) after 
respective permissible re-examinations, would not be promoted to the next year of the programme.  
 
Such students can either take readmission in the subsequent year for the entire academic year and re -do all 
the courses, that is both the ICA and TEE components.  
 
or  
 
Student who has got more than two “F” grades, who are not eligible for promotion as per progression rule 
and do not wan t to take readmission are allowed to take “year back” and appear for the term end re -
examination after paying necessary examination fees. Such students who appear for the term end re -
examination, their internal component assessment (ICA) marks will be carried forward to the next academic 
year and they will be appearing only for the term end re-examination (TEE).

=== page 69 ===
9 
 
 
5.6 Examination conducted by the School -if any – The re-examination of such courses will be held with the re-
examination of the courses conducted by University. The Examination will be held only for the TEE component; 
however, the ICA marks will remain unchanged. If a student fails in re-examination (Refer passing criteria) and 
after application of progression rule, if student is not eligible for pr omotion, he /she will have to take re -
admission for the entire year or appear for the re-examination by opting non attending option. 
 
5.7 Courses with only ICA evaluation 
 
There is no provision of re-examination under this category. The student will have to take re-admission in 
the same semester in the subsequent academic year of the programme.  
 
6. Promotion Rules: M. Tech. / MCA  
 
A student will be promoted to the subsequent year of the programme only when he/ she has no F grade in 
the year after re-examinations. 
 
 
Non – fulfillment of Passing Criteria M. Tech. / MCA 
 
A student, who has failed to fulfil the passing criteria as given above, will be required to appear for term / 
trimester / semester-end re-examination which will be conducted immediately after declar ation of results of the 
said regular term / trimester / semester -end examination. The internal continuous assessment marks will be 
carried forward for the term / trimester / semester-end re-examination.  
To be eligible to appear for term / trimester / semester-end re-examination, a student has to submit an online re-
examination application available on student’s SAP portal. A student who does not fill in online re -examination 
form will be denied permission to appear at the re-examination.   
It is the responsibility of such students to keep him/ her informed about such examination dates (time table). If, in 
any case, students feels that he/she wants to improve their ICA, they are eligible to take re admission for the 
complete academic year. In case of re-admission, the earlier results will stand null & void and student cannot claim 
the credits of the course/s passed earlier. Students have to appear as fresh candidates for both Internal Continuous 
Assessment & Term End Examinations. 
Only one re-examination will be conducted for each course immediately after declaration of results of final 
examination and there will not be any further re-examination for whatsoever reason. 
 
 
6.1 Examination conducted by the School -if any – The re-examination of such courses/subjects will be held 
with the re-examination of the subjects conducted by University. The Examination will be held only for the 
TEE component; however, the ICA marks will remain unchanged. If a student fails in re-examination (Refer 
passing criteria) and after app lication of progression rule, if student is not eligible for promotion, he /she 
will have to take re-admission for the entire year or appear for the re -examination by opting non attending 
option. 
 
6.2 Courses with only ICA component – If a student does not sati sfy passing criteria there will be no re -
examination, the student has to take re -admission in the same semester in the subsequent academic 
year.    
 
 
7. Promotion/progression Rules : M. Tech. / MCA 
 
A student who has failed to fulfill the passing criteria of odd semesters courses after re-examination, will be 
allowed to attend the classes and appear at the examination/ re-examination of even semesters.  
However, a student who fails to fulfill the passing criteria at the end of the academic year (Both the semes ters) 
will not be permitted to progress to the next year of the program. 
A student will be promoted to the subsequent year of the programme only when he/ she has no F grade at the end of 
the year after eligible re-examination/s.

=== page 70 ===
10 
 
In case, the student fails even in the re-examination/s of either odd or even semesters, which are so held, he/ she will 
not be promoted to the next year of the programme.  Such student/s will have the following options:  
 
To seek readmission in the subsequent year for the entire academic year. 
Or 
Appear for the Term end examination of the course/s in which the student has got “F” grade, in the subsequent year. 
In such a case, the ICA marks of the course/s will be carried forward of the previous year in which the student had 
got “F” grade. The student will be required to pay only the re -examination fees.  In case of obtaining F grades even 
in this attempt, student will be given another re -examination chance to clear the same.  In total, year -back students 
will have only two re-exam attempts during the academic year. 
 
 
8. Grading System: 
The University follows a letter grading system leading to the award of a Ten -Point Grade Point Average (GPA) for 
each term and Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) for all the terms until date.  
 
‘Letter grades’ and corresponding ‘grade points’ are as under: 
 
Percentage of Marks  Grade Points Performance  
90 100 O  10 Outstanding 
80 89.99 A+ 9 Excellent 
70 79.99 A 8 Very Good 
60 69.99 B+  7 Good 
55 59.99 B 6 Above Average 
50 54.99 C 5 Average 
40 49.99 P 4 Pass 
0 39.99 F 0 Fail 
0 0 AB  0 Absent 
 
 
8.1 Calculation of GPA (Grade Point Average): 
 
Grade point Average for a term will be computed by dividing, the sum of product of grade point of each course/subjects 
and credit value assigned to each respec tive course by the sum of credits assigned to all the courses / subjects for the 
related term. 
 
GPA = 
 CG
 C  
 
8.2 Calculation of CGPA (Cumulative Grade Point Average): 
 
Cumulative Grade Point Average up to and including a term will be computed by divid ing the sum of product of grade 
point of each course / subject and credit value assigned to each respective course by the sum of credits assigned to all the 
courses / subjects up to and including the related term till date. 
 
CGPA = 
 CG
 C  
      
Here: 
C = Credit value assigned to a course /subject 
G = Grade point value assigned to a student for course / subject corresponding to the letter grade (refer table given)  
GPA = Grade point Average shall be calculated for individual term and referred to as Semest er/ Trimester Grade Point 
Average. 
If a student has failed to fulfil passing standard under any head in any subject (i.e. ‘Semester/ trimester End Examination’ 
and/ or ‘aggregate’), he/ she shall be deemed to have failed in that subject.

=== page 71 ===
11 
 
 
9. General Examination Rules  
 
9.1.1 A student who remains absent from trimester / semester examination/s due to any reason in any Course shall 
be marked as 'AB' in the result/ grade sheet/ transcript for the Course/s in which he/ she has remained absent. 
All such students will be allowed to appear at re-examination in the said Course. A student who remains absent 
in the re-examination would not be able to avail any further re-examination chance in the same academic year.  
9.1.2 In order to receive the degree, diploma, certificat e, the student will have to pass all the examinations 
(Credit/Non-Credit) of all the years. Student should ensure that he/she has cleared his/her all dues from the 
respective departments like Admission, Accounts, Library, Hostel, etc. Also, mandatory admission documents 
are submitted. 
9.1.3 Grievance Redressal (Revaluation/Verification of answer books): In case a student is not satisfied with the 
result/ grade received by him/her in a particular Course, he/ she may follow the 'Grievance Redressal 
Procedure' as given in part I of student resource book in case he/ she desires.  
9.1.4 The fees for re-examinations and re-admission will be decided by the University from time to time.  
9.1.5 In case of any disputes/differences, decision of the University shall be final and binding on the students. If a 
student desires to institute any legal proceedings against the University, such legal proceedings shall be 
instituted only in court at Mumbai in whose jurisdiction the application is submitted by the student and not in 
any other court. 
9.1.6 Modification in criteria/rules: On the recommendation of the Board of Studies of the School and the Board of 
Examinations, the Academic Council shall have the sole discretionary right to modify all or any of the above 
criteria at any time without prior notice. 
 
These rules would be applicable to all the students who took admission/ re admission in and after the academic 
year 2024-25. 
 
10. Internship / project Guidelines 
 
There shall be following opportunities of industry interaction for MBA (Tech) students:  
i. MBA Tech Technical Internship Program (TIP) for 8 weeks after Third Year  
ii. Management Internship Program (MIP) of 1 6 weeks (May to 1st week of September) after Fourth 
Year for MBA Tech 
 
10.1 MBA Tech Technical Internship Program (TIP) (Training) 
a. TIP will be for 6-8 weeks after semester VI. 
b. The objective of TIP is to provide an overview of the working of the industries and the latest technology 
and practices followed in the field chosen by the student. The objective is also to provide an appreciation 
of the practical application of the theory learned in the class.  
c. MPSTME will assist the students in selecting the right industry in their field of specialization and arrange 
for an Industry mentor and faculty supervisor to help the student and monitor his/her progress .  
d. The TIP operational guidelines covering the process and the evaluation criteria will be shared in semester 
V of the program.  
 
B Tech Technical Internship Program 
The students may undergo an optional training (self-organized, 4-6 weeks) during the summer vacation  
(May and June) after the completion of 3rd year (after semester VI examinations). 
 
10.2   MBA Tech Management Internship Program (Training) 
The training shall be of 19 weeks duration commencing at the end of 8th semester. The objective shall be 
to get an all- round exposure for students and enhance their skills in industrial project working with the 
thrust on managerial content in their respective technology sectors. The training shall comprise of project 
work, which shall be in the area of the discipline in which the student is majoring in. Further, the project 
shall preferably have Technical and Management content. (i.e. It shall be of a techno -managerial 
nature). Projects could be multidisciplinary in nature. Total Marks: 200  
 
10.3 Project – B Tech (Semester VIII) / BTI (Semester XII) 
The principle objective of this course is to provide a culminating design experience to the final -year 
students’ learning with essentially required hands -on experience to ensure that they graduate with the 
required practical and soft skills. It aims to expose the students to the entire product development life 
cycle starting from literature review, feasibility study, analysis, design, development and validation so 
as to enhance the technical skill sets in the chosen field. T he course also provides an opportunity to the 
students for the development of their academic skills and logical thinking, oral communication skills,

=== page 72 ===
12 
 
teamwork and planning.  
The continuous assessment of the project work will be carried out based on the week ly performance, 
discussions and reporting to faculty and industry mentor. The final evaluation will be carried out by 
industry/academic experts at the end of the semester 
 
10.4 B Tech / MBA Tech Summer Training 
The students can undergo an optional training (self-organized, 4-6 weeks) during the summer vacation  
(May and June) after the completion of 2nd year (after semester IV examinations). 
 
11. Course policy / Tutorial policy 
 The course policy / tutorial policy document for a particular course/subject provides detailed information 
about the teaching plan, pedagogy, reference material and evaluation criteria.  
 At the beginning of every semester, the faculty members will share the course policy / tutorial policy for 
every course/subject. 
 
 
12. Teaching assistantships  
 A limited number of technical assistantships from time to time may be available for all students of 
M. Tech. 
 There will be a notice from concerned faculty inviting applications from students to assist the 
min doing a research project for a stipulated period. 
 Students will be selected by the faculty under whom they wish to work. 
 
 
 
13. Community Service 
 
In this course students are provided with an opportunity to volunteer services to Government, Non -government 
agencies, Hospitals, Schools and the Community. The services will be provided for any consecutive three weeks 
during the summer vacation between Semester -II and Semester -III (for first year students) and during the 
summer vacation between Semester -IV and Semester -V (for lateral entry students).   Emphasis is p laced on 
development and enhancement of organizational, leadership skills and character of students. Students will 
understand critical issues facing society and explore all aspects of giving back to the society.   It is mandatory 
noncredit course.  A student must undergo and pass the course.

=== page 73 ===
13 
 
 
14. List of E resources subscribed by NMIMS 
 
 
Sr. 
No. Database Sr. 
No. Database 
 LIBRARY SOFTWARE   
1. Koha 15. ISI Emerging Markets 
 GRAMMAR/PLAGIARISM CHECK SFT. 16. SPSS: AMOS 
2. Grammarly  COMPANY DATABASE 
3. Turnitin 17. Capitaline AWS 
 ELECTRONIC  JOURNAL DATABASES  STATISTICAL DATABASES 
4. Current Science 18. EPWRF 
5. EBSCO  19. IndiaStat 
6. Economic and Political Weekly  LAW DATABASES 
7. Ergonomics in Design 20. Hein Online 
8. JSTOR 21. Live Law 
9. The Design Journal 22. Manupatra 
   CASE STUDY DATABASE 
 ENGINEERING DATABASES 23. Harvard Business School Publishing 
10. DELNET  FINANCE LAB 
11. NPTEL 24. Bloomberg 
 E-BOOKS DATABASES  SWAYAM / NDL 
12. Pearson E-Books 25. Consortium for Educational 
Communication (CEC) 
 RESEARCH DATABASES 26. National Digital Library 
13. CMIE: Prowess IQ 27. SWAYAM 
14. EViews 8

=== page 74 ===
14 
 
15. Course Structures and Guidelines – of all programmes 
 
MUKESH PATEL SCHOOL OF TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT AND ENGINEERING  
 
Vision 
 
Play a distinct role in providing excellence in engineering and technology management education thereby 
creating human resources of value to industry and society both at national and international level.  
 
   Mission 
 
1. Formulate relevant curriculum through strong industry linkages and interaction.  
2. Ensure quality of education through pedagogical innovations 
3. Undertake and promote relevant research 
4. Ensure multifaceted development of students, faculty and staff through conti nuous introspection 
and inputs. 
5. Set up the international linkages with Institutes /industry of repute 
 
Information Technology Department  
Vision 
Department of IT will impart quality education and conduct research relevant to needs of the national and 
international community which will help to improve quality of human life. 
 
Mission 
To prepare human resource with technical and management skills to meet the contemporary Information 
Technology demands of the industry and society at large by delivering relevant  curriculum, using the state of 
the art pedagogical innovations, and undertake relevant research. 
 
Programme Educational Objectives (PEO) 
 
A. Technical Growth - Graduates will be successful in modern engineering practice and entrepreneurship, 
integrate into the local and global workforce, and contribute to the economy of India.  
B. Professional Skills – Graduates will continue to acquire and demonstrate the professional skills 
necessary to be competent employees, assume leadership roles, and enjoy career success a nd 
satisfaction. 
C. Professional Attitude and Citizenship-Graduates will become productive citizens demonstrating high 
ethical and professional standards, make sound engineering or managerial decisions, and have 
enthusiasm for the profession and professional growth. 
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
Graduates of the B Tech. in Information Technology program will have an ability to:  
1. Analyze a complex computing problem and to apply principles of computing and other relevant 
disciplines to identify solutions. 
2. Design, implem ent, and evaluate a computing -based solution to meet a given set of computing 
requirements in the context of the program’s discipline. 
3. Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts. 
4. Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in computing practice based 
on legal and ethical principles.  
5. Function effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities appropriate to the 
program’s discipline.  
 
In addition to outcomes 1 through 5, graduates of the Information Technology program will also have an ability 
to: Identify and analyze user needs and to take them into account in the selection, creation, integration, 
evaluation, and administration of computing-based systems. 
In addition to outcomes 1 through 5, graduates of the Cybersecurity program will also have an ability to: 
6. Apply security principles and practices to maintain operations in the presence of risks and  
threats.

=== page 75 ===
15 
 
 
Course Structure for MBA Tech Information Technology (Batch 2024 -29) 
Year of the Programme : First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester I Semester II 
Sr. 
No Course Name Credit
/s 
Sr. 
No Course Name Credit
/s 
1 Calculus 4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 4 
2 Physics 4 2 Quantum and Statistical Physics 3 
3 Programming for Problem Solving 4 3 Elements of Biology 3 
4 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 3 4 Engineering Graphics and Design 3 
5 Design Thinking 0 5 Principles of Economics and 
Management  3 
6 English Communication 1 6 Professional Ethics 1 
7 Digital Manufacturing Laboratory 1 7 Critical Thinking 0 
8 Electrical and Electronics Workshop 1 8 Constitution of India 0 
9 Environmental Science 2 9 Python Programming 1 
  Total 20   Total 18 
Year of the Programme: Second Year (Academic Year 2025 -26) 
Semester III Semester IV 
Sr. 
No Course Name Credit
/s 
Sr. 
No Course Name Credit
/s 
1 Discrete Mathematics 3 1 Probability and Statistics 3 
2 Signals and Systems 3 2 Operating Systems 3 
3 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 3 Programming for Analytics 2 
4 Technical Communication  1 4 Object Oriented Programming 3 
5 Digital Logic Design 3 5 Principles of Artificial Intelligence 3 
6 Database Management Systems 3 6 Computer Organization and 
Architecture 3 
7 Computer Networks 3 7 Data Warehousing and Mining 4 
8 Web Programming 3 8 Management Accounting for 
Engineers 2 
9 Community Service 0       
  Total 23   Total 23 
Year of the Programme: Third Year (Academic Year 2026-27) 
Semester V Semester VI 
Sr. 
No Course Name Credit
/s 
Sr. 
No Course Name Credit
/s 
1 Human Computer Interaction 3 1 Interpersonal Skills 1 
2 Embedded Systems 3 2 Mobile Application Development 3 
3 Software Engineering 3 3 Machine Learning Algorithms 3 
4 Visual Analytics 1 4 Software Project Management 2 
5 Department Elective I (Choose any one) 3 5 System Administration 2 
6 Open Elective I 3 6 Department Elective II (Choose any 
one) 3 
7 Open Elective II 3 7 Department Elective III (Choose any 
one) 3 
      8 Open Elective III 3 
      9 Open Elective IV 3 
  Total 19   Total 23 
Year of the Programme: Fourth Year (Academic Year 2027-28) 
Semester VII Semester VIII 
Sr. 
No Course Name Credit
/s 
Sr. 
No Course Name Credit
/s 
1 Information Systems Security 3 1 Cloud Computing 3

=== page 76 ===
16 
 
2 Department Elective IV (Choose any one) 3 2 Department Elective V (Choose any 
one) 3 
3 Open Elective V 3 3 Capstone Project 5 
4 Technical Internship 4 4 Business Analytics  3 
5 Business Statistics  2 5 Logistics and Supplychain 
Management 2 
6 Operations Management  3 6 Financial Management  3 
7 Quantitative Techniques  2 7 B2B Marketing  2 
8 Financial Accounting and Analysis  3 8 Contract, Competition and Consumer 
Laws 1 
9 Marketing  Management  3 9 Organizational Behaviour  2 
10 Macroeconomics 2 10 Business Research Methods 2 
11 Spreadsheet Modelling  1 11 Personal Skills for Business  2 
      12 Information System Management 2 
  Total 29   Total 30 
Year of the Programme: Fifth Year (Academic Year 2028-29) 
Semester IX Semester X 
Sr. 
No Course Name Credit
/s 
Sr. 
No Course Name Credit
/s 
1 Human Resource Management 2 1 Strategic Management  3 
2 Management of Technology and 
Innovation 2 2 Sustainable Business Management 
Practices 2 
3 Business Communication 2 3 Entrepreneurship 2 
4 Elective- 1 2 4 Elective- 5 2 
5 Elective- 2 2 5 Elective- 6 2 
6 Elective- 3 2 6 Elective- 7 2 
7 Elective- 4 2 7 Elective- 8 2 
  Total 14       
8 Management Internship Programme – 16 
weeks 12       
  Total 26   Total 15 
 Total number of Courses 89    
  Total Credits for the Programme 226

=== page 77 ===
17 
 
Course Structure for B Tech Information Technology (Batch 2024-28) 
Year of the Programme : First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester I Semester II 
Sr. No Course Name Credit/s Sr. No Course Name Credit/s 
1 Calculus 4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 4 
2 Physics 4 2 Quantum and Statistical Physics 3 
3 Elements of Biology 3 3 English Communication 1 
4 Programming for Problem Solving 4 4 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 3 
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 3 5 Principles of Economics and 
Management  3 
6 Professional Ethics 1 6 Design Thinking 0 
7 Constitution of India 0 7 Digital Manufacturing Laboratory 1 
8 Critical Thinking 0 8 Electrical and Electronics Workshop 1 
      9 Python Programming 1 
      10 Environmental Science 2 
  Total 19   Total 19 
Year of the Programme: Second Year (Academic Year 2025 -26) 
Semester III Semester IV 
Sr. No Course Name Credit/s Sr. No Course Name Credit/s 
1 Discrete Mathematics 3 1 Probability and Statistics 3 
2 Signals and Systems 3 2 Operating Systems 3 
3 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 3 Programming for Analytics 2 
4 Technical Communication  1 4 Object Oriented Programming 3 
5 Digital Logic Design 3 5 Principles of Artificial Intelligence 3 
6 Database Management Systems 3 6 Computer Organization and Architecture 3 
7 Computer Networks 3 7 Data Warehousing and Mining 4 
8 Web Programming 3 8 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 
9 Community Service 0       
  Total 23   Total 23 
Year of the Programme: Third Year (Academic Year 2026-27) 
Semester V Semester VI 
Sr. No Course Name Credit/s Sr. No Course Name Credit/s 
1 Human Computer Interaction 3 1 Interpersonal Skills 1 
2 Embedded Systems 3 2 Mobile Application Development 3 
3 Software Engineering 3 3 Machine Learning Algorithms 3 
4 Visual Analytics 1 4 Software Project Management 2 
5 Department Elective I (Choose any 
one) 3 5 System Administration 2 
6 Open Elective I 3 6 Department Elective II (Choose any 
one) 3 
7 Open Elective II 3 7 Department Elective III (Choose any 
one) 3 
      8 Open Elective III 3 
      9 Open Elective IV 3 
  Total 19   Total 23

=== page 78 ===
18 
 
Year of the Programme: Fourth Year (Academic Year 2027 -28) 
Semester VII Semester VIII 
Sr. No Course Name Credit/s Sr. No Course Name Credit/s 
1 Information Systems Security 3 1 Project 10 
2 Cloud Computing 3       
3 Department Elective IV (Choose 
any one) 3       
4 Department Elective V (Choose any 
one) 3       
5 Open Elective V 3       
6 Capstone Project 4       
  Total 19   Total 10 
 Total number of Courses 58    
  Total Credits for the Programme 155

=== page 79 ===
19 
 
Course Structure for B Tech Computer Science and Engineering (Cybersecurity) (Batch 2024 -28) 
Year of the Programme : First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester I Semester II 
Sr. 
No Course Name Credi
t/s Sr. No Course Name Credit/
s 
1 Calculus 4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 4 
2 Physics 4 2 Quantum and Statistical Physics 3 
3 Elements of Biology 3 3 English Communication 1 
4 Programming for Problem Solving 4 4 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 3 
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 3 5 Principles of Economics and 
Management  3 
6 Professional Ethics 1 6 Design Thinking 0 
7 Constitution of India 0 7 Digital Manufacturing Laboratory 1 
8 Critical Thinking 0 8 Electrical and Electronics Workshop 1 
      9 Python Programming 1 
      10 Environmental Science 2 
  Total 19   Total 19 
Year of the Programme: Second Year (Academic Year 2025 -26) 
Semester III Semester IV 
Sr. 
No Course Name Credi
t/s Sr. No Course Name Credit/
s 
1 Discrete Mathematics 3 1 Probability and Statistics 3 
2 Signals and Systems 3 2 Operating Systems 3 
3 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 3 Computer Organization and 
Architecture 3 
4 Technical Communication  1 4 Object Oriented Programming 3 
5 Digital Logic Design 3 5 Introduction to Cryptography 3 
6 Database Management Systems 3 6 Mobile Application Development 3 
7 Computer Networks 3 7 Data Warehousing and Mining 4 
8 Web Programming 3 8 Management Accounting for 
Engineers 2 
9 Community Service 0       
  Total 23   Total 24 
Year of the Programme: Third Year (Academic Year 2026-27) 
Semester V Semester VI 
Sr. 
No Course Name Credi
t/s Sr. No Course Name Credit/
s 
1 Cybersecurity Fundamentals 3 1 Interpersonal Skills 1 
2 Network Security 3 2 Vulnerability Assessment and 
Penetration Testing 3 
3 Software Engineering 3 3 Digital Forensics and Incident 
Response 4 
4 Visual Analytics 1 4 System Administration 2 
5 Department Elective I (Choose any one) 3 5 Department Elective II (Choose any 
one) 3 
6 Open Elective I 3 6 Department Elective III (Choose any 
one) 3 
7 Open Elective II 3 7 Open Elective III 3 
      8 Open Elective IV 3 
  Total 19   Total 22

=== page 80 ===
20 
 
Year of the Programme: Fourth Year (Academic Year 2027 -28) 
Semester VII Semester VIII 
Sr. 
No Course Name Credi
t/s Sr. No Course Name Credit/
s 
1 Human and Legal Aspects of 
Cybersecurity 3 1 Project 10 
2 Cybersecurity Risk Management 3       
3 Department Elective IV 3       
4 Department Elective V 3       
5 Open Elective V 3       
6 Capstone Project 4       
  Total 19   Total 10 
 Total number of Courses 57    
  Total Credits for the Programme 155

=== page 81 ===
21 
 
Course Structure for Diploma in Information Technology Program ( Batch 2024 -27) 
Year of the Programme: First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester I Semester II 
Sr 
No Name of course Credits Sr 
No Name of course Credits 
1 Mathematics-I 4 1 Mathematics-II 4 
2 Applied Physics-I 3 2 Applied Physics-II 3 
3 Applied Chemistry  2 3 Introduction to Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 3 
4 Engineering Drawing 3 4 Engineering Mechanics 4 
5 Computer Programming 3 5 Website Designing 3 
6 Communication Skills 2 6 Applied Physics-II Lab 1 
7 Engineering Workshop Practice 1 7 Introduction to Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering Lab 1 
8 Applied Physics-I Lab 1 8 Social and Life Skills 1 
9 Applied Chemistry Lab 1       
  Total 20   Total 20 
Year of the Programme: Second Year (Academic Year 2025-26) 
Semester III Semester IV 
Sr 
No Name of course Credits Sr 
No Name of course Credits 
1 Mathematics-III 4 1 Database Management System 
Fundamentals 4 
2 Data Structures 3 2 Python Programming 2 
3 Digital Techniques  4 3 Data Communication and Computer 
Network 3 
4 Introduction to Object Oriented 
Programming 3 4 Basic Software Engineering Concepts 3 
5 Computer Hardware and 
Maintenance 1 5 Multimedia and Animation 3 
6 Fundamentals of Operating Systems 3 6 Microprocessor and Microcontrollers 4 
7 Computer System Architecture 2 7 Environmental Education and Sustainability 1 
  Total 20   Total 20 
Year of the Programme: Third Year (Academic Year 2026-27) 
Semester V Semester VI 
Sr 
No Name of course Credits Sr 
No Name of course Credits 
1 GUI Application Development 3 1  Cloud Computing Basics 3 
2 Introduction to Cybersecurity 3 2 Network and Information Security 4 
3 Introduction to Datawarehouse 2 3 Fundamentals of Artificial Intelligence 3 
4 Data Mining Techniques 4 4 Visual Analytics 1 
5 Internship 3 5 Mobile Application Development 2 
6 Capstone Project Planning and 
Seminar 2 6 Department Elective-II 3 
7 Department Elective-I 3 7 Capstone Project Execution 4 
  Total 20   Total 20 
Total No. of Courses  45     
Total Credits 120

=== page 82 ===
22 
 
Computer Engineering Department  
Vision 
Play a significant role in creating Computer Engineering Graduates with sound te chnical and managerial skills 
of value to industry and society both at national and international level. 
 
Mission 
The Computer Engineering Department endeavors for excellence in creating, applying and imparting 
knowledge in computer engineering through com prehensive curriculum and innovative teaching -learning 
process. 
Provide a sound technical and managerial foundation and multifaceted development that prepares 
student to excel in higher education, research or technical/managerial profession that can adapt to rapidly 
changing technology in computer engineering. 
Programme Educational Objectives (PEO) 
 
A. Technical Growth - Graduates will be successful in modern engineering practice and entrepreneurship, 
integrate into the local and global workforce, and contribute to the economy of India. 
B. Professional Skills -Graduates will continue to acquire and demonstrate the professional skills  
necessary to be competent employees, assume leadership roles, and enjoy career success and 
satisfaction. 
C. Professional Attitude and Citizenship-Graduates will become productive citizens demonstrating high 
ethical and professional standards, make sound engineering or managerial decisions, and have 
enthusiasm for the profession and professional growth. 
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
Graduates of the B Tech. in Computer Engineering program will have an ability to: 
 
1. Identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, 
science, and mathematics. 
2. Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public 
health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors.  
3. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
4. Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed 
judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, 
environmental, and societal contexts. 
5. Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and 
inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. 
6. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering 
judgment to draw conclusions. 
7. Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

=== page 83 ===
23 
 
 
Course Structure for B Tech Computer Engineering Programme (Batch 2024-28) 
First Year  
Semester – I Semester - II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Calculus 4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 
4 
2 Physics 4 2 Quantum and Statistical Physics 3 
3 Elements of Biology 3 3 English Communication 1 
4 Programming for Problem Solving 4 4 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 
3 
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 3 5 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 
6 Professional Ethics 1 6 Environmental Science 2 
7 Constitution of India 0 7 Digital Manufacturing Laboratory 1 
8 Critical Thinking 0 8 Electrical and Electronics Workshop 1 
   9 Design Thinking 0 
   10 Python Programming 1 
  Total 19   Total 18 
Second Year  
Semester – III Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Probability and Statistics 3 1 Complex Variables and Transforms 4 
2 Discrete Mathematics 3 2 Computer Organization and Architecture  3 
3 Technical Communication 1 3 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 
4 Principles of Economics and 
Management 3 4 Database Management Systems 3 
5 Digital Logic Design 3 5 Microprocessor and Microcontroller 4 
6 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 6 Theoretical Computer Science 3 
7 Computer Networks 3 7 Web Programming 3 
8 Data Extraction and Processing 2 8 Object Oriented Programming through 
JAVA 1 
9 Community Service 0    
      
  Total 22   Total 24 
Third Year  
Semester – V Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Software Engineering 3 1 Cyber Security 3 
2 Artificial Intelligence 3 2 Distributed Computing 3 
3 Image and Video Processing 3 3 Machine Learning 3 
4 Operating Systems 3 4 Department Elective II 3 
5 Department Elective I 3 5 Department Elective III 3 
6 Open Elective I 3 6 Open Elective III 3 
7 Open Elective II 3 7 Open Elective IV 3 
   8 Interpersonal Skills 1 
  Total 21   Total 22 
Fourth Year  
Semester – VII Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Cloud Computing 3 1 Project  10 
2 Department Elective IV 3       
3 Department Elective V 3       
4 Department Elective VI 3       
5 Open Elective V 3       
6 Capstone Project 4       
  Total 19   Total 10 
 Total number of Courses 57    
 Total Credits for the Programme 155

=== page 84 ===
24 
 
 
Course Structure for MBA Tech Computer Engineering Programme (Batch 2024-29) 
First Year  
Semester – I Semester - II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Calculus  4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 4 
2 Physics 4 2 Quantum and Statistical Physics 3 
3 Programming for Problem Solving  4 3 Elements of Biology 3 
4 Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering 3 4 Engineering Graphics and Design  3 
5 Design Thinking 0 5 Management Accounting for 
Engineers 2 
6 English Communication 1 6 Professional Ethics 1 
7 Digital Manufacturing Laboratory 1 7 Constitution of India 0 
 8 Electrical and Electronics Workshop  1 8 Critical Thinking 0 
9 Environmental Science 2 9 Python Programming 1 
  Total 20   Total 17 
Second Year  
Semester – III Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Probability and Statistics 3 1 Complex Variables and Transforms 4 
2 Discrete Mathematics 3 2 Computer Organization and 
Architecture  3 
3 Technical Communication 1 3 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 
4 Principles of Economics and Management 3 4 Database Management Systems 3 
5 Digital Logic Design 3 5 Microprocessor and Microcontroller 4 
6 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 6 Theoretical Computer Science 3 
7 Computer Networks 3 7 Web Programming  3 
8 Data Extraction and Processing 2 8 Object Oriented Programming through 
JAVA 1 
9 Community Service 0    
      
  Total 22   Total 24 
Third Year  
Semester – V Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Software Engineering 3 1 Cyber Security 3 
2 Artificial Intelligence 3 2 Distributed Computing 3 
3 Image and Video Processing 3 3 Machine Learning 3 
4 Operating Systems 3 4 Department Elective II 3 
5 Department Elective I 3 5 Department Elective III 3 
6 Open Elective I 3 6 Open Elective III 3 
7 Open Elective II 3 7 Open Elective IV 3 
   8 Interpersonal Skills 1 
  Total 21   Total 22 
Fourth Year  
Semester – VII Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Cloud Computing 3 1 Department Elective - VI 3 
2 Department Elective IV 3 2 Capstone Project 5 
3 Department Elective V 3    
4 Open Elective V 3       
5 Technical Internship 4       
  Total 16   Total 8 
S. No. Management Subjects Credits S. No. Management Subjects Credits 
1 Business Statistics 2 1 Business Analytics 3 
2 Operations Management 3 2 Logistics and Supplychain 
Management 2 
3 Quantitative Techniques 2 3 Financial Management 3

=== page 85 ===
25 
 
4 Financial Accounting and Analysis 3 4 B2B Marketing 2 
5 Marketing Management 3 5 Contract, Competition and 
Consumer Laws 1 
6 Macroeconomics  2 6 Organizational Behaviour 2 
7 Spreadsheet Modelling 1 7 Business Research Methods 2 
   8 Personal Skills for Business 2 
   9 Information System Management 2 
  Total  16  Total 19 
Fifth Year  
Semester – IX Semester - X 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
 Compulsory Subjects   Compulsory Subjects  
1 Human Resource Management 2 1 Strategic Management 3 
2 Management of Technology and Innovation 2 2 Sustainable Business 
Management Practices 2 
3 Business Communication 2 3 Entrepreneurship 2 
4 Elective- 1 2 4 Elective- 5 2 
5 Elective- 2 2 5 Elective- 6 2 
6 Elective- 3 2 6 Elective- 7 2 
7 Elective- 4 2 7 Elective- 8 2 
 Total 14  Total 15 
      
Value  
Added  
Course 
Management Internship Programme –16 
weeks 12    
  26    
        
 Total number of Courses 87    
 Total Credits for the Programme    226

=== page 86 ===
26 
 
 
Course Structure for B Tech Computer Science and Business Systems Programme (Batch 2024-28) 
First Year  
Semester - I Semester - II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Statistics, Probability and Calculus 4 1 Linear Algebra 4 
2 Programming for Problem Solving 4 2 Statistical Methods 4 
3 Principles of Electrical Engineering 3 3 Python Programming 1 
4 Physics for Computing Science 3 4 Fundamentals of Economics 2 
5 Business Communication and Value 
Science - I 4 5 Business Communication and Value 
Science – II 4 
6 Constitution of India 0 6 Principles of Electronics Engineering 3 
   7 Environmental Science 2 
  Total 19   Total 20 
Second Year 
Semester - III Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Theoretical Computer Science 3 1 Operating Systems 3 
2 Computer Organization and 
Architecture 3 2 Database Management Systems 3 
3 Object Oriented Programming 3 3 Computer Networks 3 
4 Computational Statistics 4 4 Introduction to Innovation, IP 
Management and Entrepreneurship 3 
5 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 5 Technical Communication and Leadership 
Skills 4 
6 Discrete Mathematics  3 6 Operations Research 3 
7 Fundamentals of Management 2    
8 Community Service 0    
  Total 22   Total 19 
Third Year  
Semester - V Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 1 Software Design with UML 4 
2 Compiler Design 3 2 Information Security 4 
3 Software Engineering 3 3 Artificial Intelligence 3 
4 Business Strategy 3 4 Financial & Cost Accounting 4 
5 Design Thinking 0 5 Professional Communication and Soft 
Skills 3 
6 Services Science & Service 
Operational Management 4 6 Department Elective-III 3 
     7 Department Elective-I   3 7 Department Elective-IV  4 
8 Department Elective-II 4    
  Total 22   Total 25 
Fourth Year 
Semester - VII Semester - VIII 
      
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Capstone Project 4 1 Project  10 
2 Human Computer Interaction  3     
3 Marketing Management 3     
4 Financial Management 3     
5 Human Resource Management 2     
6 IT Project Management 4     
7 Department Elective-V 2    
8 Department Elective -VI 3       
 Total 24   Total 10 
 Total number of Courses 51    
  Total Credits for the Programme 161

=== page 87 ===
27 
 
 
Course Structure for B Tech Computer Science Program (Batch 2024-28) 
Year of the Programme : First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester I   Semester II 
Sr. No Course Name  Credit/s Sr. No Course Name  Credit/s 
1 Calculus  4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 
4 
2 Physics 4 2 Quantum and Statistical Physics 3 
3 Elements of Biology 3 3 English Communication 1 
4 Programming for Problem Solving  4 4 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 
3 
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 3 5 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 
6 Professional Ethics 1 6 Environmental Science 2 
7 Constitution of India 0 7 Digital Manufacturing Laboratory 1 
8 Critical Thinking 0  8 Electrical and Electronics Workshop 1 
   9 Design Thinking 0 
   10 Python Programming  1 
  Total  19   Total  18 
Year of the Programme : Second Year (Academic Year 2025-26) 
Semester III   Semester IV 
Sr. No Course Name  Credit/s Sr. No Course Name  Credit/s 
1 Probability and Statistics 3 1 Complex Variables and Transforms  4 
2 Essentials of Computer Science  2 2 Discrete Mathematics 3 
3 Technical Communication 1 3 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 
4 Principles of Economics and 
Management 3 4 Database Management Systems 3 
5 Digital Circuits and Computer 
Architecture 4 5 Design and Applications of Internet of 
Things 4 
6 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 6 Theoretical Computer Science 3 
7 Computer Networks 3 7 Web Programming  3 
8 Data Extraction and Processing 2  8 Object Oriented Programming through 
JAVA   1 
9 Community Service 0       
  Total  22   Total  24 
Year of the Programme : Third Year (Academic Year 2026-27) 
Semester V   Semester VI 
Sr. No Course Name  Credit/s Sr. No Course Name  Credit/s 
1 Software Engineering 3 1 Artificial Intelligence  3 
2 Compiler Design 3 2 Cyber Security 3 
3 Image and Video Processing 3 3 Distributed Computing 3 
4 Operating Systems 3 4 Department Elective II 3 
5 Department Elective I 3 5 Department Elective III 3 
6 Open Elective I 3 6 Open Elective III 3 
7 Open Elective II 3 7 Open Elective IV 3 
      8 Interpersonal Skills 1 
  Total  21   Total  22

=== page 88 ===
28 
 
Year of the Programme : Fourth Year (Academic Year 2026 -27) 
Semester VII   Semester VIII 
Sr. No Course Name  Credit/s Sr. No Course Name  Credit/s 
1 Machine Learning 3 1 Project  10 
2 Department Elective IV 3       
3 Department Elective V 3       
4 Department Elective VI 3       
5 Open Elective V 3       
6 Capstone Project 4       
  Total  19   Total  10 
 Total number of Courses 57    
 Total Credits for the Programme 155

=== page 89 ===
29 
 
Course Structure B Tech Computer Science and Engineering (Data Science) (Batch 2023 -27) (For 311 
Students graduating from NMIMS University only .) 
Year of the Programme: First Year  
Semester - I Semester - II 
S.No Course Name Credit
s S. No Course Name Credi
ts 
1 Introduction to Business Analytics and 
Business Intelligence 3 1 Principles of Accounting -I 3 
2 Business Calculus 4 2 Principles of Economics -I 3 
3 Introductory Psychology 3 3 Introduction to Business Statistics, 
Analytics & Modeling-I 3 
4 Communication Skills-I 3 4 Communication Skills-II 3 
5 Foundations of Business 3 5 Critical Thinking in Humanities 3 
6 Engineering Graphics and Design 1 6 Physics 3 
7 Programming for Problem Solving 3 7 Object Oriented Programming and 
Design 3 
8 Basics of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 3 8 Logic Design and Computer 
Organization 3 
Total   23 Total   24 
Year of the Programme: Second Year  
Semester - III Semester - IV 
S.No Course Name Credit
s S. No Course Name Credi
ts 
1 Principles of Accounting- II 3 1 Operations and Supply Chain 
Management 3 
2 Principles of Economics- II 3 2 Introduction to Business Analytics 
Modeling 3 
3 Introduction to Business Statistics, 
Analytics and Modeling-II 3 3 Database Management System  3 
4 Introduction to Programming in Python 3 4 Introduction to International Business 3 
5 Foundations of Entrepreneurship 3 5 Introduction to Chemistry 3 
6 Operating Systems 3 6 Careers in Business Information 
Technology 1 
7 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 7 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 
8 Business Visualization 2       
9 Community Service 0       
Total   23 Total   19 
Year of the Programme: Third Year  
Semester - V Semester - VI 
S.No Course Name Credit
s S. No Course Name Credi
ts 
1 Advanced Modeling for Business 
Analytics 3 1 Networks and Telecommunications 3 
2 Advanced Business Computing and 
Applications 3 2 Information Security 3 
3 Marketing Management 3 3 Systems Analysis and Design 3 
4 Principles of Management 3 4 Project Management 3 
5 Design an Art for Consumers 3 5 Formal Language and Automata 
Theory 3 
6 Data Wrangling 3 6 Artificial Intelligence 3 
7 Machine Learning 3 7 Image and Video Processing 3 
Total   21 Total   21 
            
Year of the Programme : Fourth Year (For 311 Students graduating from NMIMS University only.) 
Semester - VII Semester - VIII 
S. No Course Name Credit
s S. No Course Name Credi
ts 
1 Neural Networks and Deep Learning 3 1 Project 10

=== page 90 ===
30 
 
2 Speech and Natural Language 
Processing 3 2     
3 Big Data Analytics 3 3     
4 MLOps 3 4     
5 1 Department Elective I 3       
6 1 Department Elective II 3       
7 2 Open Elective V 3       
8 Capstone Project 4       
Total   25 Total   10 
 Total number of Courses 54    
  Total Credits for the Programme 166

=== page 91 ===
31 
 
 
Course Structure for B Tech Compute r Science and Engineering (Data Science) (Batch 202 3 - 2027) (Not in 
collaboration with VT ) 
Year of the Programme : First Year  
Semester I                 Semester II 
Sr. 
No Course Name  Credit/s Sr. No Course Name  Credit/s 
1 Calculus 4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 4 
2 English Communication 1 2 Physics 4 
3 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 3 3 Digital Circuits and Computer 
Architecture 4 
4 Programming for Problem Solving 4 4 Principles of Economics and 
Management 3 
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 3 5 Environmental Science 2 
6 Elements of Biology 3 6 Python for data analysis 2 
7 Professional Ethics 1 7 Digital Manufacturing Laboratory 1 
8 Constitution of India 0 8 Electrical and Electronics Workshop 1 
9 Design Thinking 0 9 Critical Thinking 0 
  Total 19   Total 21 
                       Year of the Programme : Second Year  
Semester III  Semester IV  
Sr. 
No Course Name  Credit/s Sr. No Course Name  Credit/s 
1 Probability and Statistics 3 1 Statistical Methods 3 
2 Data Wrangling 3 2 Machine Learning 4 
3 Optimization Methods 4 3 Introduction to Data, Signal, and 
Image Analysis 4 
4 Discrete Mathematics 3 4 Database Management Systems 3 
5 Data Structures and Algorithms  4 5 Web Programming 3 
6 Management Accounting for 
Engineers  2 6 Data Handling and Visualization 2 
7 Technical Communication 1       
8 Community Service 0       
  Total 20   Total 19 
Year of the Programme : Third Year  
Semester V Semester VI  
Sr. 
No Course Name  Credit/s Sr. No Course Name  Credit/s 
1 Software Engineering 3 1 Applied Artificial Intelligence 4 
2 Mobile Application development 3 2 Neural Networks and Deep Learning  3 
3 Computer Networks 3 3 Advance Data Structure for 
Analytics 3 
4 Operating Systems 3 4 Department Elective II 3 
5 Department Elective I 3 5 Department Elective III 3 
6 Open Elective I  3 6 Open Elective III  3 
7 Open Elective II  3 7 Open Elective IV  3 
      8 Interpersonal Skills 1 
  Total 21   Total 23

=== page 92 ===
32 
 
Year of the Programme : Third Year  
 
Semester VII  Semester VII  
Sr. 
No Course Name  Credit/s Sr. No Course Name  Credit/s 
1 Cloud Computing 3 1 Project 10 
2 Big Data 3       
3 Computer Vision 3       
4 Department Elective IV 3       
5 Department Elective V 3       
6 Open Elective V  3       
7 Capstone Project 4       
  Total 22   Total 10 
 Total number of Courses 55    
  Total Credits for the Programme 155

=== page 93 ===
33 
 
 
Course Structure for Master of Computer Application Programme (Batch 2024-26) 
First Year  
Semester – I Semester - II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Operating Systems 3 1 Probability and Statistics 3 
2 Database Management Systems 3 2 Software Engineering 3 
3 Computer Networks 3 3 Advanced Web Technologies 4 
4 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 4 Artificial Intelligence 3 
5 Java Programming 4 5 Department Elective - I 3 
6 Web Technologies 4 6 Data Analysis with Python 4 
7 English Communication 1 7 Mobile Application Development 3 
8 Design Thinking 0 8 Technical Communication 1 
      9 Advanced Java 3 
  Total 22   Total 27 
Second Year  
Semester - III Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Machine Learning 3 1 Project 10 
2 Cloud Computing 3      
3 Cyber Security 3      
4 Microservices and Architecture 3      
5 Department Elective - II 3    
6 Open Elective 3    
7 Professional Ethics 1    
8 Interpersonal Skills 1    
9 Capstone Project 3    
  Total 23   Total 10 
 Total number of Courses 27    
 Total Credits for the Programme 82

=== page 94 ===
34 
 
 
Course Structure for Diploma in Computer Engineering Program ( Batch 2024-27) 
Year of the Programme : First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester I   Semester II 
Sr. No. Course Name Credit/s   Sr. No. Course Name Credit/s 
1 Mathematics-I 4   1 Mathematics-II 4 
2 Applied Physics-I 3   2 Applied Physics-II 3 
3 Applied Chemistry  2   3 Introduction to Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering 3 
4 Engineering Drawing 3   4 Engineering Mechanics 4 
5 Computer Programming 3   5 Website Designing 3 
6 Communication Skills 2   6 Applied Physics-II Lab 1 
7 Engineering Workshop Practice 1   7 Introduction to Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering Lab 1 
8 Applied Physics-I Lab 1   8 Social and Life Skills 1 
9 Applied Chemistry Lab 1         
  Total 20     Total 20 
Year of the Programme : Second Year (Academic Year 2025-26) 
Semester III   Semester IV 
Sr. No. Course Name Credit/s   Sr. No. Course Name Credit/s 
1 Mathematics-III 4   1 Introduction to Database Management 
System 4 
2 Data Structures 3   2 Java Programming 2 
3 Digital Techniques  4   3 Data Communication and Computer 
Network 3 
4 Object Oriented Programing 3   4 Introduction to Operating Systems 3 
5 Computer Hardware and 
Maintenance 1   5 Multimedia and Animation 3 
6 Computer Graphics 3   6 Microprocessor and Microcontrollers 4 
7 Computer System Architecture 2   7 Environmental Education and 
Sustainability 1 
  Total 20     Total 20 
Year of the Programme : Third Year (Academic Year 2026-27) 
Semester V   Semester VI 
Sr. No. Course Name Credit/s   Sr. No. Course Name Credit/s 
1 GUI Application Development 3   1 Dataware Housing and Mining 
Techniques 4 
2 Python Programming 3   2 Introduction to Cloud Computing 3 
3 Software Engineering 3   3 Introduction to Artificial Intelligence 4 
4 System Security 3   4 Design Thinking  2 
5 Internship 3   5 Department Elective II 3 
6 Project-I 2   6 Project-II 4 
7 Department Elective I 3         
  Total 20     Total 20         Total Credits  120     
 Total no. of courses 44

=== page 95 ===
35 
 
Artificial Intelligence Department 
Vision 
Play a significant role in nurturing young engineering graduates with sound technical and ethical skills to cater to the needs 
of fast growing multidisciplinary application areas of artificial intelligence to address industrial and societal needs both at 
national and international level. 
 
Mission 
1. To focus on efforts to create comprehensive curriculum to ensure multifaceted development of students to 
address challenges  in application areas of Artificial Intelligence such as healthcare, education, agriculture, 
smart cities, infrastructure, including mobility and transportation. 
2. To build a strong teaching and research environment fostering strong analytical and problem -solving skills to 
prepare students to excel in higher education, research or technical/managerial profession. 
3. To promote project based learning by providing opportunity to work on real life challenging problems through 
collaborative projects with industry and academia. 
Programme Educational Objectives (PEO) 
D. Technical Growth - Graduates will be successful in modern engineering practice and entrepreneurship, 
integrate into the local and global workforce, and contribute to the economy of India.  
E. Professional Skills -Graduates will continue to acquire and demonstrate the professional skills 
necessary to be compet ent employees, assume leadership roles, and enjoy career success and 
satisfaction. 
F. Professional Attitude and Citizenship-Graduates will become productive citizens demonstrating high 
ethical and professional standards, make sound engineering or managerial d ecisions, and have 
enthusiasm for the profession and professional growth. 
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
Graduates of the B Tech in Artificial Intelligence program will have an ability to:  
 
1. Identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying pr inciples of engineering, 
science, and mathematics. 
2. Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public 
health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors.  
3. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
4. Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed 
judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, 
environmental, and societal contexts. 
5. Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and 
inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. 
6. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and inter pret data, and use engineering 
judgment to draw conclusions. 
7. Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

=== page 96 ===
36 
 
Course Structure for MBA Tech Artificial Intelligence Programme (Batch 2024-29) 
Year of the Programme: First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester - I Semester - II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Calculus 4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 4 
2 Physics 4 2 Probability and Random Variables 3 
3 Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering 3 3 Elements of Biology 3 
4 English Communication 1 4 Engineering Graphics and Design  3 
5 Programming for Problem Solving 4 5 Principles of Economics and 
Management 3 
6 Digital Manufacturing Laboratory 1 6 Python Programming 1 
7 Electrical and Electronics Workshop 1 7 Professional Ethics 1 
8 Environmental Science 2 8 Constitution of India 0 
9 Design Thinking 0 9  Critical Thinking 0 
  Total 20   Total 18 
Year of the Programme: Second Year (Academic Year 2025-26) 
Semester - III Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Discrete Mathematics 3 1 Statistical Methods 3 
2 Random Processes and Estimation 
Techniques 4 2 Signal and Image Processing 4 
3 Computer Architecture 2 3 Machine Learning 4 
4 Operating Systems 3 4 Database Management Systems 3 
5 Intelligent Systems - I 3 5 Optimization Techniques 3 
6 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 6 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 
7 Technical Communication 1 7 Integral Transforms 3 
8 Community Service 0       
  Total 20   Total 22 
Year of the Programme: Third Year (Academic Year 2026-27) 
Semester - V Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Computer Networks 3 1 Advanced Topics in Machine Learning 3 
2 Deep Learning  3 2 Agile Product Development with 
DevOps 3 
3 Natural Language Processing 3 3 Robotics 3 
4 Department Elective - I 3 4 Department Elective - III 3 
5 Department Elective - II 3 5 Department Elective - IV 3 
6 Open Elective - I 3 6 Open Elective - III 3 
7 Open Elective - II 3 7 Open Elective - IV 3 
      8 Interpersonal Skills 1 
  Total 21   Total 22

=== page 97 ===
37 
 
Year of the Programme: Fourth Year (Academic Year 2027-28) 
Semester - VII Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Computer Vision 3 1 Applied Time Series Analysis 3 
2 Department Elective - V 3 2 Generative AI 3 
3 Department Elective - VI 3 3 Capstone Project 5 
4 Open Elective - V 3       
5 Technical Internship 4       
  Total 16   Total 11 
  Management Subjects     Management Subjects   
1 Business Statistics  2 1 Business Analytics  3 
2 Operations Management  3 2 Logistics and Supplychain 
Management 2 
3 Quantitative Techniques  2 3 Financial Management  3 
4 Financial Accounting and Analysis  3 4 B2B Marketing  2 
5 Marketing  Management  3 5 Contract, Competition and 
Consumer Laws 1 
6 Macroeconomics 2 6 Organizational Behaviour  2 
7 Spreadsheet Modelling  1 7 Business Research Methods 2 
      8 Personal Skills for Business  2 
      9 Information System Management 2 
  Total 16   Total 19 
Year of the Programme: Fifth Year (Academic Year 2028-29) 
Semester - IX Semester - X 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
  Compulsory Subjects     Compulsory Subjects   
1 Human Resource Management 2 1 Strategic Management  3 
2 Management of Technology and Innovation 2 2 Sustainable Business Management 
Practices 2 
3 Business Communication 2 3 Entrepreneurship 2 
4 Elective- 1 2 4 Elective- 5 2 
5 Elective- 2 2 5 Elective- 6 2 
6 Elective- 3 2 6 Elective- 7 2 
7 Elective- 4 2 7 Elective- 8 2 
  Total 14   Total 15 
  Value Added course         
1 Management Internship Programme –  
 16 weeks 12       
  Total 26       
 Total number of Courses 37    
 Total Credits for the Programme 226

=== page 98 ===
38 
 
Course Structure for B Tech Artificial Intelligence Programme (Batch 20 24-28) 
Year of the Programme: First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester - I Semester - II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Calculus 4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential Equations 4 
2 Physics 4 2 Probability and Random variables 3 
3 English Communication 1 3 Elements of Biology 3 
4 Programming for Problem Solving 4 4 Engineering Graphics and Design 3 
5 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 3 5 Principles of Economics and Management 3 
6 Environmental Science 2 6 Python Programming 1 
7 Critical Thinking 0 7 Digital Manufacturing Laboratory 1 
8 Constitution of India 0 8 Electrical and Electronics Workshop 1 
      9 Professional Ethics 1 
      10 Design Thinking 0 
  Total 18   Total 20 
Year of the Programme: Second Year (Academic Year 2025-26) 
Semester - III Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Discrete Mathematics 3 1 Statistical Methods 3 
2 Random Processes and Estimation 
Techniques 4 2 Signal and Image Processing 3 
3 Computer Architecture 2 3 Machine Learning 4 
4 Operating Systems 3 4 Database Management Systems 3 
5 Intelligent Systems - I 3 5 Optimization Techniques 3 
6 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 6 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 
7 Technical Communication 1 7 Integral Transforms 3 
8 Community Service 0       
  Total 20   Total 21 
Year of the Programme: Third Year (Academic Year 2026-27) 
Semester - V Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Computer Networks 3 1 Advanced Topics in Machine Learning 3 
2 Deep Learning  3 2 Agile Product Development with DevOps 3 
3 Natural Language Processing 3 3 Robotics 3 
4 Department Elective - I 3 4 Department Elective - III 3 
5 Department Elective - II 3 5 Department Elective - IV 3 
6 Open Elective I 3 6 Open Elective - III 3 
7 Open Elective - II 3 7 Open Elective - IV 3 
      8 Interpersonal Skills 1 
  Total 21   Total 22 
Year of the Programme: Fourth Year (Academic Year 2027 -28) 
Semester - VII Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Applied Time Series Analysis 3 1 Project  10 
2 Computer Vision 3       
3 Generative AI 3       
4 Department Elective - V 3       
5 Department Elective - VI 3       
6 Open Elective - V 3       
7 Capstone Project 4       
  Total 22   Total 10 
 Total number of Courses 56     
 Total Credits for the Programme                       154

=== page 99 ===
39 
 
Course Structure for B Tech Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (Batch 202 4-28) 
Year of the Programme: First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester - I Semester - II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Calculus 4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 4 
2 Physics 4 2 Python Programming 1 
3 English Communication 1 3 Principles of Economics and 
Management 3 
4 Programming for Problem Solving 4 4 Elements of Biology 3 
5 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 3 5 Probability and Random variables 3 
6 Constitution of India 0 6 Engineering Graphics and Design 3 
7 Critical Thinking 0 7 Professional Ethics 1 
8 Environmental Science 2 8 Design Thinking 0 
      9 Digital Manufacturing Laboratory 1 
      10 Electrical and Electronics Workshop 1 
  Total 18   Total 20 
Year of the Programme: Second Year (Academic Year 202 5-26) 
Semester - III Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Discrete Mathematics 3 1 Database Management Systems 3 
2 Random Processes and Estimation 
Techniques 4 2 Statistical Methods 3 
3 Computer Organization and Architecture 3 3 Machine Learning 4 
4 Operating Systems 3 4 Signal and Image Processing 4 
5 Intelligent Systems - I 3 5 Optimization Techniques 3 
6 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 6 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 
7 Technical Communication 1 7 Integral Transforms 3 
8 Community Service 0       
  Total 21   Total 22 
Year of the Programme: Third Year (Academic Year 2026-27) 
Semester - V Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Computer Networks 3 1 Advanced Topics in Machine Learning 3 
2 Deep Learning 3 2 Big Data Analytics 3 
3 Natural Language Processing 3 3 Agile Product Development with 
DevOps 3 
4 Department Elective - I 3 4 Interpersonal Skills 1 
5 Department Elective - II 3 5 Department Elective - III 3 
6 Open Elective - I 3 6 Department Elective - IV 3 
7 Open Elective - II 3 7 Open Elective - III 3 
      8 Open Elective - IV 3 
  Total 21   Total 22 
Year of the Programme: Fourth Year (Academic Year 2027-28) 
Semester - VII Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Applied Time Series Analysis 3 1 Project 10 
2 Computer Vision 3       
3 Data Handling and Visualization 2       
4 Distributed Computing 3       
5 Department Elective - V 3       
6 Open Elective - V 3       
7 Capstone Project 4       
  Total 21   Total 10 
 Total number of Courses 56    
 Total Credits for the Programme 155

=== page 100 ===
40 
 
Course structure for B Tech Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (Batch 202 4-28) 
Year of the Programme: First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester - I Semester - II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Calculus 4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential Equations 4 
2 Physics 4 2 Probability and Random variables 3 
3 Engineering Graphics and Design 3 3 Elements of Biology 3 
4 English Communication 1 4 Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering 3 
5 Programming for Problem Solving 4 5 Principles of Economics and Management 3 
6 Environmental Science 2 6 Python Programming 1 
7 Critical Thinking 0 7 Digital Manufacturing Laboratory 1 
8 Constitution of India 0 8 Electrical and Electronics Workshop 1 
      9 Professional Ethics 1 
      10 Design Thinking 0 
  Total 18   Total 20 
Year of the Programme: Second Year (Academic Year 202 5-26) 
Semester - III Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Discrete Mathematics 3 1 Signal and Image Processing 4 
2 Random Processes and Estimation Techniques 4 2 Database Management Systems 3 
3 Data Wrangling 3 3 Machine Learning 4 
4 Statistical Methods 3 4 Artificial Intelligence 3 
5 Operating Systems 3 5 Optimization Techniques 3 
6 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 6 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 
7 Technical Communication 1 7 Integral Transforms 3 
8 Community Service 0       
  Total 21   Total 22 
Year of the Programme: Third Year (Academic Year 2026-27) 
Semester - V Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Computer Networks 3 1 Computer Vision 3 
2 Data Handling and Visualization 2 2 Deep Learning 3 
3 Mobile Application Development  3 3 Agile Product Development with DevOps 3 
4 Department Elective - I 3 4 Department Elective - III 3 
5 Department Elective - II 3 5 Department Elective - IV 3 
6 Open Elective - I 3 6 Open Elective - III 3 
7 Open Elective - II 3 7 Open Elective - IV 3 
      8 Interpersonal Skills 1 
  Total 20   Total 22 
Year of the Programme: Fourth Year (Academic Year 2027-28) 
Semester - VII Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Applied Time Series Analysis 3 1 Project 10 
2 Natural Language Processing 3       
3 Big Data Analytics 3       
4 Department Elective - V 3       
5 Department Elective - VI 3       
6 Open Elective - V 3       
7 Capstone Project 4       
  Total 22   Total 10 
 Total number of Courses 56    
 Total Credits for the Programme 155

=== page 101 ===
41 
 
 
  
Data Science Department  
Vision 
Play a distinct role in providing excellence in Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Management 
fundamentals and concepts using scientific methods, processes, algorithms and systems to extract knowledge and insights, 
thereby creating human resources of value to industry and society both at national and international level. 
Mission 
4. To prepare human resource in the areas of technical and management domains with strong analytical aptitude and 
problem-solving skills to meet the contemporary Business Analytics demands of the industry and society by delivering 
relevant curriculum, using the state -of-the-art pedagogical innovations developed by strong industry linkages, and 
undertake relevant research and consultancy. 
5. Ensure multifaceted development of students, faculty and staff in computation al sciences to Work on real life 
challenging problems through continuous introspection and inputs. 
6. Set up the international linkages with Institutes/Industry of repute. 
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs) 
The Program Educational Obje ctives of B. Tech Dat a Science, MBA Tech Data Science, M. Tech Data Science (Business 
Analytics) and M. Tech Artificial Intelligence Programs are to produce graduates and post graduates with the following 
objectives: 
A. Establish themselves as Data Scientists, Data Engineers, Art ificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Engineers and 
Subject Matter Experts in various private and public sectors that are involved in the design, creation, maintenance and 
use of industrial and organization data and help nation building 
B. Solve real world problems by applying knowledge ethically that will benefit organizations and society at large.  
C. Adapt to changing trends in Data Science, Business Analytics, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning and 
become lifelong learners. 
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
1. Identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, 
and mathematics. 
2. Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, 
safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors. 
3. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
4. Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, 
which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal 
contexts. 
5. Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and 
inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. 
6. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment 
to draw conclusions. 
7. Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies .

=== page 102 ===
42 
 
Course Structure for MBA Tech Data Science Programme (Batch 2024-29) 
Year of the Programme: First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester - I Semester - II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Calculus  4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential 
Equations 4 
2 Physics 4 2 Quantum and Statistical Physics 3 
3 English Communication 1 3 Elements of Biology 3 
4 Programming for Problem Solving 4 4 Engineering Graphics and Design  3 
5 Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering 3 5 Principles of Economics and 
Management 3 
6 Design Thinking 0 6 Python for Data Analysis 2 
7 Digital Manufacturing Laboratory 1 7 Professional Ethics 1 
8 Electrical and Electronics Workshop  1 8 Constitution of India 0 
9 Environmental Science 2 9 Critical Thinking 0 
  Total 20   Total 19 
Year of the Programme: Second Year (Academic Year 2025-26) 
Semester - III Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Optimization Methods 4 1 Stochastic processes and Applications 3 
2 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 2 Statistical Structures in Data and 
Inference 4 
3 Managing Uncertainty 4 3 Data Handling and Visualization 2 
4 Data Wrangling 3 4 Introduction to Data, Signal and Image 
Analysis 4 
5 Information Security and Privacy 2 5 Database Management Systems 3 
6 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 6 Mobile Application Development 3 
7 Technical Communication 1       
8 Community Service 0       
  Total 20   Total 19 
Year of the Programme: Third Year (Academic Year 2026-27) 
Semester - V Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Introduction to Modern Application 
Development 3 1 Computer Vision and Applications 3 
2 Applied Artificial Intelligence 4 2 Applications of  Machine Learning 3 
3 Foundations of Machine Learning 4 3 Advance Data Structure for Analytics 3 
4 Department Elective - I 3 4 Big Data Analytics 3 
5 Department Elective - II 3 5 Department Elective - III 3 
6 Open Elective - I  3 6 Open Elective - III 3 
7 Open Elective - II  3 7 Open Elective - IV 3 
      8  Interpersonal Skills  1 
  Total 23   Total 22

=== page 103 ===
43 
 
Year of the Programme: Fourth Year (Academic Year 2027-28) 
Semester - VII Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Neural Networks and Deep Learning 3 1 Capstone Project 5 
2 Speech and Natural Language Processing 3 2 Department Elective - IV  3 
3 MLOps 3 3 Department Elective - V 3 
4 Open Elective - V 3       
5 Technical Internship 4       
  Total 16   Total 11 
  Management Subjects     Management Subjects   
1 Business Statistics  2 1 Business Analytics  3 
2 Operations Management  3 2 Logistics and Supplychain Management 2 
3 Quantitative Techniques  2 3 Financial Management  3 
4 Financial Accounting and Analysis  3 4 B2B Marketing  2 
5 Marketing  Management  3 5 Contract, Competition and Consumer 
Laws 1 
6 Macroeconomics 2 6 Organizational Behaviour  2 
7 Spreadsheet Modelling  1 7 Business Research Methods 2 
      8 Personal Skills for Business  2 
      9 Information System Management 2 
  Total 16   Total 19 
Year of the Programme: Fifth Year (Academic Year 2028-29) 
Semester - IX Semester - X 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
  Compulsory Subjects     Compulsory Subjects   
1 Human Resource Management 2 1 Strategic Management  3 
2 Management of Technology and Innovation 2 2 Sustainable Business Management 
Practices 2 
3 Business Communication 2 3 Entrepreneurship 2 
4 Elective- 1 2 4 Elective- 5 2 
5 Elective- 2 2 5 Elective- 6 2 
6 Elective- 3 2 6 Elective- 7 2 
7 Elective- 4 2 7 Elective- 8 2 
  Total 14   Total 15 
  Value Added course         
1 Management Internship Programme –  
 16 weeks 12       
  Total 26       
 Total number of Courses 86     Total Credits for the Programme 226

=== page 104 ===
44 
 
 
Course Structure for B Tech Data Science Programme (Batch 2024 -28) 
Year of the Programme: First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester - I Semester - II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Calculus 4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential Equations 4 
2 Physics 4 2 Quantum and Statistical Physics 3 
3 Elements of Biology 3 3 English Communication 1 
4 Programming for Problem Solving 4 4 Basic Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 3 
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 3 5 Digital Manufacturing Laboratory 1 
6 Professional Ethics 1 6 Electrical and Electronics Workshop  1 
7 Constitution of India 0 7 Principles of Economics and Management 3 
8 Critical Thinking 0 8 Python for Data Analysis 2 
      9 Environmental Science 2 
      10 Design Thinking 0 
  Total 19   Total 20 
Year of the Programme: Second Year (Academic Year 2025 -26) 
Semester - III Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Optimization Methods 4 1 Stochastic processes and Applications 3 
2 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 2 Statistical Structures in Data and Inference 4 
3 Managing Uncertainty 4 3 Data Handling and Visualization 2 
4 Data Wrangling 3 4 Introduction to Data, Signal and Image 
Analysis 4 
5 Information Security and Privacy 2 5 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 
6 Database Management Systems 3 6 Mobile Application Development 3 
7 Technical Communication 1       
8 Community Service 0       
  Total 21   Total 18 
Year of the Programme: Third Year (Academic Year 2026-27) 
Semester - V Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Introduction to Modern Application 
Development 3 1 Computer Vision and Applications 3 
2 Applied Artificial Intelligence 4 2 Applications of Machine Learning 3 
3 Foundations of Machine Learning 4 3 Advance Data Structure for Analytics 3 
4 Department Elective - I 3 4 Department Elective - III 3 
5 Department Elective - II 3 5 Open Elective - III 3 
6 Open Elective - I  3 6 Open Elective - IV 3 
7 Open Elective - II  3 7  Interpersonal Skills  1 
  Total 23   Total 19

=== page 105 ===
45 
 
Year of the Programme: Fourth Year (Academic Year 2027 -28) 
Semester - VII Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Neural Networks and Deep Learning 3 1 Project  10 
2 Speech and Natural Language 
Processing 3       
3 Big Data Analytics 3       
4 MLOps 3       
5 Department Elective - IV 3       
6 Department Elective - V 3       
7 Open Elective - V 3       
8 Capstone Project 4       
  Total 25   Total 10 
 Total number of Courses 55    
  Total Credits for the Programme 155

=== page 106 ===
46 
 
 
Course Structure for M Tech Data Science (Business Analytics) Programme (Batch 2024-26) 
Year of the Programme: First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester – I Semester - II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Applied Mathematics for Data 
Science 3 1 Deep Learning Applications  3 
2 Programming for Analytics  3 2 Generative AI with Large Language 
Models  3 
3 Applied Machine Learning 3 3 Professional Elective - II  3 
4 Data Engineering  3 4 Natural Language Processing 2 
5 Professional Elective - I  3 5 Professional Elective - III  3 
6 Professional Skills  1 6 Career Development and Professional 
Skills  1 
7 Lab - 1: Applied ML Lab  2 7 Lab - 3: Building GenAI based 
Applications  2 
8 Lab - 2: Data Science Lab  2 8 Lab - 4: LLM Lab  2 
   9 Seminar - I 2 
  
Professional Elective - I : (Choose 
any one)  
1. Generative Adversarial Networks  
2. Finance Analytics 
    
Professional Elective - II : (Choose any 
one) 
1. Ethics in Data Science  
2. Computer Vision  
  
  
      
Professional Elective - III : (Choose any 
one) 
1. Application Architecture and 
Deployment  
2. Security of Data Science  
  
  Total 20   Total 19 
Year of the Programme: Second Year (Academic Year 2025 -26) 
Semester - III Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Professional Elective - IV  3 1 Project / Thesis - II  16 
2 Capstone Project / Thesis - I 12       
3 Seminar - II 2    
  
Professional Elective - IV: (Choose 
any one)  
1. Machine Learning Engineering for 
Production (MLOps) Specialization  
2. Industry Specific Applications of 
GenAI & Responsible AI  
        
  Total 17   Total 16 
  Total number of Courses 21       
 Total Credits  74

=== page 107 ===
47 
 
 
 
 
Course Structure for M Tech Artificial Intelligence Programme (Batch 2024 -26) 
Year of the Programme: First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester – I Semester - II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Applied Statistics and Time Series 
Forecasting 3 1 Artificial Intelligence - DL & Gen AI 3 
2 Advanced Data Analysis and Programming 3 2 Distributed Data Processing  3 
3 Data Engineering 3 3 Security Essentials in Applied AI 4 
4 Artificial Intelligence with ML 3 4 Professional Elective - II 3 
5 Natural Language Processing  2 5 Professional Elective - III 3 
6 Professional Elective - I  3 6 Career Development and Professional 
Skills  1 
7 Professional Skills  1 7 Lab – 3: AI Applications Lab 2 
8 Lab – 1: Visual Analytics Lab 2 8 Lab – 4: AI DL & Edge Lab 2 
9 Lab – 2: AI ML Lab 2 9 Seminar - I 2 
  
Professional Elective - I : (Choose any one) 
1. Application Architecture & Deployment  
2. Financial Analytics using time series and 
LSTM 
    
Professional Elective - II : (Choose any 
one) 
1. Edge Computing  
2. Reinforcement Learning 
  
      
 
Professional Elective - III : (Choose any 
one) 
1. Generative AI 
2. Computer Vision  
3. Large Language Models   
  Total 22   Total 23 
Year of the Programme: Second Year (Academic Year 2025 -26) 
Semester – III Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Professional Elective - IV 3 1 Project / Thesis - II  16 
2 Capstone Project / Thesis - I 12       
3 Seminar - II 2    
  
Professional Elective - IV : (Choose any 
one) 
1. Advanced Deep Learning - Application 
2. Cloud Computing 
        
  Total 17   Total 16 
 Total number of Courses 22    
 Total Credits  78

=== page 108 ===
48 
 
 
Course Structure for Diploma in Computer Science and Engineering Program ( Batch 2024-27) 
Year of the Programme : First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester I   Semester II 
Sr. 
No. 
Course Name Credit/s   Sr. 
No. 
Course Name Credit/s 
1 Mathematics-I 4   1 Mathematics-II 4 
2 Applied Physics-I 3   2 Applied Physics-II 3 
3 Applied Chemistry  2 
  3 Introduction to Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering 3 
4 Engineering Drawing 3   4 Engineering Mechanics 4 
5 Computer Programming 3   5 Website Designing 3 
6 Communication Skills 2   6 Applied Physics-II Lab 1 
7 Engineering Workshop Practice 1 
  7 Introduction to Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering Lab 
1 
8 Applied Physics-I Lab 1   8 Social and Life Skills 1 
9 Applied Chemistry Lab 1         
  Total 20     Total 20 
Year of the Programme : Second Year (Academic Year 2025-26) 
Semester III   Semester IV 
Sr. 
No. 
Course Name Credit/s   Sr. 
No. 
Course Name Credit/s 
1 Mathematics-III 4   1 
Introduction to Database Management 
System 4 
2 Data Structures 3   2 Java Programming 2 
3 Digital Logic 4   3 Computer Network 3 
4 Object Oriented Programing 3   4 Introduction to Operating Systems 3 
5 
Computer Hardware and 
Maintenance 1   5 Multimedia and Animation 3 
6 Computer Graphics 3   6 Microprocessors  4 
7 
Computer Organization and 
Architecture 2   7 
Environmental Education and 
Sustainability 1 
  Total 20     Total 20 
Year of the Programme : Third Year (Academic Year 2026-27) 
Semester V   Semester VI 
Sr. 
No. Course Name Credit/s   
Sr. 
No. Course Name Credit/s 
1 Mobile Application Development 3   1 Data Mining and Analytics 4 
2 Python Programming 3   2 Introduction to Cloud Computing 3 
3 Software Engineering 3   3 Fundamentals of Artificial Intelligence 4 
4 Cyber Security 3   4 Project Management 2 
5 Internship 3   5 Department Elective II 3 
6 Project-I 2   6 Project-II 4 
7 Department Elective I 3         
  Total 20     Total 20 
         
  Total Credits for the Programme 120     
 Total no. of courses 44

=== page 109 ===
49 
 
 
Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Department 
Vision 
To build a strong teaching and research environment that caters to the needs of fast growing telecommunication domain. 
 
Mission 
1. Provide internationally recognized leaders in Electronics and Telecommunication, through a 
continuously improving educational program incorporating applied engineering aspects. 
2. Create the knowledge of fundamental principles and innovative technologies through research in the 
area of Electronics and Telecommunication and hence teach the students the necessary research skills 
which satisfy the needs of growing economy. 
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs) 
A. Technical Growth - Graduates will be successful in modern engineering practice and entrepreneurship, 
integrate into the local and global workforce, and contribute to the economy of India.  
B. Professional Sk ills – Graduates will continue to acquire and demonstrate the professional skills 
necessary to be competent employees, assume leadership roles, and enjoy career success and 
satisfaction. 
C. Professional Attitude and Citizenship – Graduates will become productive citizens demonstrating high 
ethical and professional standards, make sound engineering or managerial decisions, and have 
enthusiasm for the profession and professional growth. 
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
Graduates of the B. Tech. in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering program will have an ability to: 
1. Identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, 
science, and mathematics. 
2. Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public 
health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors.  
3. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
4. Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations  and make informed 
judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, 
environmental, and societal contexts. 
5. Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and 
inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. 
6. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering 
judgment to draw conclusions. 
7. Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

=== page 110 ===
50 
 
 
Course Structure for B Tech Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Program (Batch 2023-27) 
First Year 
Semester - I Semester – II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Calculus 4 1 Linear Algebra and  Differential Equations   4 
2 Physics 4 2 Quantum and Statistical Physics 3 
3 Elements of Biology 3 3 Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering 3 
4 Programming for Problem Solving 4 4 Principles of Economics and Management 3 
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 3 5 Electrical and Electronics Workshop 1 
6 Professional Ethics 1 6 Digital Manufacturing laboratory 1 
7 Constitution of India 0 7 English Communication 1 
8 Critical Thinking 0 8 Environmental Science 2 
   9 Design Thinking 0 
   10 Python Programming 1 
Total 19 Total 19 
Second Year 
Semester - III Semester – IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Complex Variables and Transforms 4 1 Probability and Statistics 3 
2 Electronic Devices and Circuits 3 2 Electromagnetic Wave Theory 3 
3 Digital Logic Design 3 3 Control System Engineering 4 
4 Circuit and Network Theory 3 4 Communication Theory and Systems 4 
5 Signals and Systems 3 5 Analog Circuits Analysis and Design 4 
6 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 6 Microprocessor and Microcontroller 4 
7 Technical Communication 1    
8 Community Service 0    
9 
Management Accounting for 
Engineers 2       
Total 23   Total 22 
Third Year 
Semester V Semester VI 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Discrete Time Signal Processing 4 1 Wireless Communication Technology 3 
2 Discrete Mathematics 3 2 Fiber Optic Communication and Networks 4 
3 Stochastic Processes 3 3 Interpersonal Skills 1 
4 Computer Networks 3 4 Department Elective I 3 
5 Microwave and Antenna Theory 4 5 Department Elective II 3 
6 Open Elective I 3 6 Open Elective III 3 
7 Open Elective II 3 7 Open Elective IV 3 
Total 23 Total 20 
Fourth Year 
  Semester VII   Semester VIII   
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 
Digital Voice and Broadband 
Communication 3 1 Project  10 
2 Department Elective III 3    
3 Department Elective IV 3    
4 Department Elective V 3    
5 Open Elective V 3    
6 Capstone Project 4    
Total 19 Total 10 
 Total number of Courses 54    
 
 
Total Credits for the Programme  
 155

=== page 111 ===
51 
 
 
Civil Engineering Department  
Vision 
Create competent Civil Engineering professionals and employable individuals with sound technical and management 
credentials to take part in state-of-the-art infrastructural development with global ensign for the benefit of the socie ty. 
Mission 
1. Provide quality education in conformity with advancements in technology and management  
2. Encourage relevant research, development and entrepreneurship qualities in students, faculty and staff through 
teamwork with learning. 
3. Develop strong industr y linkages to ascertain and resolve the socio -economic problems of infrastructure  with due 
consideration to safety and economy in ethical manner. 
 
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs) 
 
A. Technical Growth - Graduates will be successful in modern engineering practice and entrepreneurship, integrate into 
the local and global workforce, and contribute to the economy of India. 
B. Professional Skills - Graduates will continue to acquire and demonstrate the professional skills necessary to be 
competent employees, assume leadership roles, and enjoy career success and satisfaction. 
C. Professional Attitude and Citizenship - Graduates will become productive citizens demonstrating high ethical and 
professional standards, make sound engi neering or managerial decisions  and have enthusiasm for the profession and 
professional growth. 
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
Graduates of the B Tech. in Civil Engineering program will have the ability to: 
1. Identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering , science, and 
mathematics. 
2. Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, 
and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors.  
3. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
4. Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which 
must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts.  
5. Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive 
environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. 
6. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engi neering judgment to draw 
conclusions. 
7. Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

=== page 112 ===
52 
 
 
Course Structure for B Tech Civil Engineering Programme (Batch 2024-28) 
First Year  
Semester - I Semester - II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Calculus  4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential Equations  4 
2 Programming for Problem Solving 4 2 Engineering Mechanics 3 
3 Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering 3 3 Chemistry 3 
4 Engineering Graphics and Design 3 4 Physics 4 
5 Professional Ethics 1 5 English Communication 1 
6 Design Thinking 0 6 Construction Technology 2 
7 Engineering Workshop 2 7 Constitution of India 0 
      8 Critical Thinking 0 
   9 Environmental Science 2 
  Total 17   Total 19 
 Second Year  
Semester - III Semester - IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Elements of Biology 3 1 Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulics 4 
2 Complex Variables and Transforms 4 2 Transportation Engineering 3 
3 Geology 3 3 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 
4 Strength of Materials 4 4 Concrete Technology 3 
5 Principles of Economics and Management 3 5 Soil Mechanics 4 
6 Building Design and Drawing  2 6 Theory of Structures 4 
7 Surveying 3 7 Probability and Statistics 3 
8 Technical Communication  1 8 Workshop on Building Planning and Design  0 
9 Community Service 0      
  Total 23   Total 23 
Third Year  
Semester - V Semester - VI 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Design of Reinforced Concrete Structures  4 1 Water and Wastewater Engineering 4 
2 Hydraulics and Fluid Machinery 3 2 Design of Steel Structures 3 
3 Foundation Engineering 4 3 Quantity Surveying, Estimation and Valuation 4 
4 Department Elective – I  3 4 Computer Applications in Civil Engineering - I 0 
5 Open Elective – I  3 5 Interpersonal Skills 1 
6 Open Elective – II 3 6 Department Elective – II 3 
      7 Department Elective – III 3 
      8 Open Elective – III 3 
      9 Open Elective – IV 3 
  Total 20   Total 24 
Fourth Year  
Semester - VII Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Construction Project Management and 
Finance 3 1 Project 10 
2 Computer Applications in Civil Engineering - 
II 0       
3 Capstone Project 4       
4 Department Elective – IV  3       
5 Department Elective – V  3       
6 Department Elective – VI  3       
7 Open Elective – V 3       
  Total 19   Total 10 
 Total number of Courses 56    
 Total Credits for the Programme 155

=== page 113 ===
53 
 
Mechanical Engineering Department  
Vision 
To be center of excellence in Mechanical Engineering for education and research through creation of competent 
mechanical engineering graduates who can be employable in the industries and be a part of i nnovation, research, 
problem solving and entrepreneurship that prioritizes mankind in particular and society in general. 
 
Mission 
1. To impart quality education in the field of Mechanical Engineering to the students.  
2. To provide state of the art facilities to the students to enable them to learn, understand and apply 
fundamentals of Mechanical Engineering in solving engineering problems.  
3. Developing relevant curriculum of studies which will cater to the needs of industry and society.  
4. Promotion of team culture am ongst students, faculties and staff to create conducive environment for 
better interaction with industries and collaborative research and development activities.  
 
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs) 
 
A. Technical Growth - Graduates will be successful in modern engineering practice and entrepreneurship, 
integrate into the local and global workforce, and contribute to the economy of India.  
B. Professional Skills - Graduates will continue to acquire and demonstrate the professional skills 
necessary to be competent  employees, assume leadership roles, and enjoy career success and 
satisfaction. 
C. Professional Attitude and Citizenship – Graduates will become productive citizens demonstrating 
high ethical and professional standards, make sound engineering or managerial de cisions, and have 
enthusiasm for the profession and professional growth. 
 
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
1. Identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, 
science, and mathematics. 
2. Apply engineering design to produc e solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public 
health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors.  
3. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
4. Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed 
judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, 
environmental, and societal contexts. 
5. Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leaders hip, create a collaborative and 
inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. 
6. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering 
judgment to draw conclusions. 
7. Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

=== page 114 ===
54 
 
 
Course Structure for B Tech Mechanical Engineering Programme (Batch 2024-28) 
First Year 
Semester- I Semester- II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Calculus 4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential Equations                                                                     4 
2 Programming for Problem Solving  4 2 Chemistry 3 
3 Elements of Biology 3 3 Physics 4 
4 English Communication 1 4 Engineering Graphics and Design 3 
5 Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering 3 5 Environmental Science 2 
6 Constitution of India 0 6 Professional Ethics 1 
7 Critical  Thinking 0 7 Design Thinking 0 
8 3D Printing and Engineering Workshop 1       
9 Electrical and Electronics Workshop 1       
  Total  17 Total 17 
Second Year 
Semester- III Semester- IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Complex Variables and Transforms 4 1 Probability and Statistics 3 
2 Engineering Mechanics 3 2 Strength of Materials 4 
3 Engineering Thermodynamics 3 3 Kinematics and Dynamics of Machines 4 
4 Manufacturing Processes-I 2 4 Applied Thermodynamics 4 
5 Machine Drawing 3 5 Machine Shop-I  1 
6 Materials Engineering  4 6 Management Accounting for Engineers  2 
7 Principles of Economics and Management  3 7 Classical Physics 3 
8 Technical Communication 1       
9 Community Service 0       
Total 23 Total 21 
Third Year  
Semester- V Semester- VI 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Design of Machine Elements 4 1 Heat Transfer 4 
2 Manufacturing Processes-II 2 2 CAD/CAM/CIM 4 
3 Fluid Mechanics  4 3 Industrial Applications of HVAC 2 
4 Department  Elective - I 3 4 Machine Shop-II  1 
5 Department Elective - II 3 5 Department Elective - III 3 
6 Open Elective - I   3 6 Department  Elective - IV 3 
7 Open Elective - II  3 7 Open Elective - III  3 
      8 Open Elective - IV   3 
      9 Interpersonal Skills 1 
Total 22 Total 24 
Fourth Year  
Semester- VII Semester- VIII 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Finite Element Analysis 4 1 Project 10 
2 Mechanical Measurements and Metrology  4      
3 Department Elective - V 3       
4 Department Elective - VI 3       
5 Open Elective - V   3       
6 Capstone Project 4       
Total 21 Total 10 
 Total number of Courses 55    
 Total Credits for the Programme 155

=== page 115 ===
55 
 
 
Course Structure for Diploma in Mechanical Engineering Program ( Batch 2024 -27) 
Year of the Programme: First Year (Academic Year 2024-25) 
Semester- I Semester- II 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Mathematics-I 4 1 Mathematics-II 4 
2 Applied Physics-I 3 2 Applied Physics-II 3 
3 Applied Chemistry  2 3 Introduction to Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering 3 
4 Engineering Drawing 3 4 Engineering Mechanics 4 
5 Computer Programming 3 5 Website Designing 3 
6 Communication Skills 2 6 Applied Physics-II Lab 1 
7 Engineering Workshop Practice 1 7 Introduction to Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering Lab 1 
8 Applied Physics-I Lab 1 8 Social and Life Skills 1 
9 Applied Chemistry Lab 1       
  Total  20 Total 20 
Year of the Programme: Second Year (Academic Year 2025-26) 
Semester- III Semester- IV 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Mathematics-III 4 1 Advanced Manufacturing 
Technology 3 
2 Fluid Mechanics and Machinery 4 2 Engineering Metallurgy 4 
3 Production Drawing 3 3 Metrology and Measurement 4 
4 Solid Mechanics 4 4 Theory of Machines 4 
5 Engineering Thermodynamics 3 5 Basics of Mechatronics 3 
6 Manufacturing Workshop 1 6 Elements of Mechanical 
Engineering 2 
7 Environmental Education and 
Sustainability 1       
Total 20 Total 20 
Year of the Programme: Third Year (Academic Year 2026-27) 
Semester- V Semester- VI 
S. No. Course Credits S. No. Course Credits 
1 Introduction to Hydraulics and 
Pneumatics 4 1 Machine Design 4 
2 Refrigeration and Air Conditioning 4 2 3D Modelling and Additive 
Manufacturing 3 
3 Industrial Engineering and 
Management 2 3 Computer Aided Design and 
Manufacturing 4 
4 Basics of Automobile Engineering 2 4 Total Quality Management 2 
5 Internship 3 5 Department Elective-II 3 
6 Capstone Project Planning and 
Seminar 2 6 Capstone Project Execution 4 
7 Department Elective-I 3 7     
Total 20 Total 20 
Total Credits 120   
Total No of Courses  44

=== page 116 ===
56 
 
 
Mechatronics Engineering Department  
Vision 
 To be one of the leading Mechatronics engineering program by providing high quality education to our students through 
extensive industrial research enabling them to use modern automation technologies to develop innovative solutions. 
Mission 
To offer multidisciplinary program that is the synergistic integration of electrical and electronics engineering, 
mechanical engineering, computational software, and hardware in the design of products and processes into the emerging 
field of mechatronics. 
Program Educational Objectives (PEO) 
The B. Tech (Mechatronics Engineering) graduates will: 
A. Apply mechanical engineering and electrical and electronics engineering skills to solve problem s in 
mechatronics engineering. 
B. Integrate and use systems or devices incorporating modern microelect ronics, information technology  and 
modern engineering tools for product design, development and manufacturing. 
C. Demonstrate professional skills to communicate effectively with team members and work effectively to achieve 
design and project objectives. 
D. Engage in lifelong learning in their profession and practice professional and ethical responsibility.  
Student Outcomes (SOs) 
Graduates of the B Tech. in Mechatronics Engineering program will have an ability to: 
1. Identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and 
mathematics. 
2. Apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with  consideration of public health, safety, 
and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors.  
3. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
4. Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situ ations and make informed judgments, which 
must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts.  
5. Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and i nclusive 
environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives. 
6. Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw 
conclusions. 
7. Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

=== page 117 ===
57 
 
 
Course Structure for B Tech Mechatronics Engineering Programme (Batch 2024-28) 
First Year  
Semester - I Semester - II 
S. No. Course  Credits S. No. Course  Credits 
1 Calculus 4 1 Linear Algebra and Differential Equations 4 
2 Physics  4 2 Quantum and Statistical Physics 3 
3 Elements of Biology 3 3 English Communication 1 
4 Programming for Problem Solving 4 4 Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering 3 
5 Engineering Graphics and Design 3 5 Principles of Economics and Management  3 
6 Professional Ethics 1 6 Design Thinking 0 
7 Constitution of India 0 7 Digital Manufacturing Laboratory 1 
8 Critical Thinking 0 8 Electrical and Electronics Workshop 1 
      9 Python Programming  1 
   10 Environmental Science 2 
  Total 19   Total 19 
Second Year 
Semester - III Semester - IV 
S. No. Course  Credits S. No. Course  Credits 
1 Complex Variables and Transforms 4 1 Probability and Statistics 3 
2 Engineering Mechanics 3 2 Dynamic Systems Modeling  3 
3 Management Accounting for Engineers 2 3 Microprocessor Systems and Interfacing  3 
4 Data Structures and Algorithms 4 4 Mechanics of Materials  3 
5 Digital Logic Design 3 5 Fluid Mechanics 3 
6 Signals and Systems 3 6 Electronic Systems 3 
7 Thermodynamics 3 7 Chemistry 3 
8 Technical Communication 1    
9 Community Service 0       
  Total 23   Total 21 
Third Year 
Semester - V Semester - VI 
S. No. Course  Credits S. No. Course  Credits 
1 Industrial Drives 3 1 Project Methodology 1 
2 Classical Control Systems 3 2 Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition 3 
3 Manufacturing Processes 3 3 PLCs and Instrumentation 3 
4 Department Elective – I 3 4 Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning  3 
5 Department Elective – II 3 5 Department Elective – III 3 
6 Open Elective - I  3 6 Department Elective – IV 3 
7 Open Elective - II 3 7 Open Elective - III 3 
      8 Open Elective - IV  3 
      9 Interpersonal Skills 1 
  Total 21   Total 23 
Fourth Year 
Semester - VII Semester - VIII 
S. No. Course  Credits S. No. Course  Credits 
1 Mechatronic Systems Design 3 1 Project  10 
2 Robotic Systems Design 3       
3 Capstone Project 4       
4 Department Elective – V 3       
5 Department Elective – VI 3       
6 Open Elective -V 3       
  Total 19   Total 10 
 Total number of Courses 57    
 Total Credits for the Programme 155

=== page 118 ===
58 
 
Technology Management Department 
Vision 
“Nurturing Young Minds to help them transform into Leaders who can leverage appropriate Technology for Business 
goals.” 
Mission 
To develop the student as a multi-skilled person who will be able to solve real world problems holistically through: 
1. A balance of appropriate Technology and Management inputs, 
2. Substantial exposure to Industry and corporate work culture via twin Industry Internships in Technical and Management 
domains. 
3. Imparting value based business practices by a mix of Academic and Industry experienced faculty. 
4. Innovative and entrepreneurial mindset 
Program Objectives of MBA Tech 
The Program aims to create Business Leaders who can leverage appropriate technology for Business excellence in the 
company they serve or for their entrepreneurial venture, displaying ethical and socially responsible behavior. 
PROGRAM LEARNING GOALS 
The students should have  
P Learning Goal 1:  An understanding of global practices impacting organizations.  
PLO 1a-  Demonstrate ability to understand management issues from a global perspective  
PLO 1b- Demonstrate ability to analyze cultural issues in a business organization 
P Learning Goal 2:  Critical thinking skills   
PLO 2a -Analyze a business situation from multiple perspectives  
PLO 2b- Apply models/frameworks to reflect critically on specific business contexts  
P Learning Goal 3 – Understanding Business Domains and Integration with Technology  
PLO 3a- Describe the concepts related to functional areas of decision making in an organization  
PLO 3b - Analyze and connect functional areas of Business 
PLO 3c- Integrate functional areas of business to support an overall organizational strategy  
P Learning Goal 4- Effective communication skills 
PLO 4a-Demonstrate effective communication skills  
PLO4b- Organize written thoughts into a coherent narrative  
P Learning Goal 5: An understanding of ethical business models 
PLO 5a- Demonstrate understanding of the relevance of ethics, and its role in governance, in public, private        and not -for-
profit sectors. 
PLO 5b- Identify the ethical concerns and consequences of a given business problem

=== page 119 ===
16. Approved Academic Calendar of all programs
SVKM'sNMIMS
AcademicCalendarfor theAcademicYear:2024-2025
School Name: Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management & Engineering, Campus: Mumbai,
Shirpur
School Name: School of Technology Management & Engineering,Campus: Navi Mumbai, Indore,
Chandigarh,Hyderabad
Program Names: MBATech, BTech,BTech (Int),MCAand M Tech
AllPrograms(Year1-6)  MBATech(year5only)
Start Date  EndDate  Start Date  End Date
OddSemester/TermI
Commencementof  November 16,
Term  July 15, 2024  2024  September16,2024  December72024
Mid TermTestI  August 19,2024  August24,2024  October7,2024  October12,2024
November 18,
MidTermTestI  October7,2024  October12,2024  November23,2024
2024
November25,  December 11,
Term End Exam  December11,2024  December21,2024
2024  2024
Re-exam  February13,2025  February25,2025  February13,2025  February25, 2025
DiwaliVacation  October28,2024  November3,  October28,2024  November3,2024
2024
Even Semester/Term II
Commencementof
Term  January 2, 2025  April 21,2025  January2,2025  April 21,2025
Mid Term TestI  February 3,2025  February 8,2025  February 3,2025  February 8,2025
Mid TermTest II  March17,2025  March 22,2025  March17,2025  March22,2025
Term End Exam  April 28, 2025  May13,2025  April 28, 2025  May13,2025
Re-exam  July 1, 2025  July 11,2025  July 1, 2025  July 11,2025
December 26  December 26,
WinterVacation  2024  January1,2025  2024  January12025
CommencementofnextAcademicyear  (AY2025-26)  July 14,2025
DeanMPSTME
Datesaresubject to changeif required.
59

=== page 120 ===
60 
 
 
17. LIST OF HOLIDAYS FOR THE YEAR 2024 
SVKM's NMIMS Deemed to be University 
 
Calendar 2024 
 NMIMS (Mumbai, Navi 
Mumbai, Shirpur & 
Dhule) 
  
NMIMS (Bangalore) 
  
NMIMS (Hyderabad) 
  
NMIMS (Indore) 
 
NMIMS 
(Bhubaneswar) 
  
NMIMS (Chandigarh) 
  List of Holidays for the year 2024 
DATE 
1/1/2024 
DAY  OCCASION  OCCASION  OCCASION  OCCASION  OCCASION  OCCASION 
Monday     1 New year       
15-Jan-24 Monday   1 Makar Sankranti 2 Sankranti/Pongal       
17-Jan-24 Wednesday           
1 Guru Gobind Singh 
Parkash 
Purb 
26-Jan-24 Friday 1 Republic Day 2 Republic Day 3 Republic Day 1 Republic Day 1 Republic Day 2 Republic Day 
14-Feb-24 Wednesday         2 Basant Panchami   
8-Mar-24 Friday     4 Mahashivratri 2 Mahashivratri  3 Mahashivratri 3 Mahashivratri 
25-Mar-24 Monday 2 Holi 3 Holi 5 Holi 3 Holi 4 Holi 4 Holi 
29-Mar-24 Friday 3 Good Friday 4 Good Friday 6 Good Friday     5 Good Friday 
30-Mar-24 Saturday       4 Rang Panchami     
1-Apr-24 Monday         5 Odisha Day    
9-Apr-24 Tuesday 4 Gudi Padwa 5 Ugadi 7 Ugadi       
11-Apr-24 Thursday 5 Ramzan-eid 6 Ramzan-eid 8 Ramzan-eid 5 Ramzan-eid     
17-Apr-24 Wednesday       6 Ram Navmi 6 Ram Navmi    
1-May-24 Wednesday 6 Maharashtra Day 7 Labor Day         
14-Jun-24 Friday         7 Pahili Raja   
15-Jun-24 Saturday         8 Raja Sankranti   
17-Jun-24 Monday     9 Bakri eid       
15-Aug-24 Thursday 7 Independence Day 8 Independence Day 10 Independence 
Day 
7 Independence Day 9 Independence Day 6 Independence Day 
19-Aug-24 Monday           7 Rakshabandhan 
26-Aug-24 Monday       8 Janmasthami 10 Janmastami 8 Janmastami 
27-Aug-24 Tuesday 8 GopalKala           
7-Sep-24 Saturday 9 Ganesh Chaturthi 9 Ganesh Chaturthi 11 Ganesh 
Chaturthi 
9 Ganesh Chaturthi 11 Ganesh Puja   
16-Sep-24 Monday           9 Eid -e-Milad 
17-Sep-24 Tuesday 10 Anant Chaturdashi           
2-Oct-24 Wednesday 11 Gandhi Jayanti 10 Gandhi Jayanti 12 Gandhi Jayanti 10 Gandhi Jayanti 12 Gandhi Jayanti 10 Gandhi Jayanti 
10-Oct-24 Thursday         13 Maha Saptami   
11-Oct-24 Friday   11 Mahanavami, Ayudha 
Pooja 
    14 Maha 
Ashtami/Navmi 
  
12-Oct-24 Saturday 12 Dushera 12 Dushera 13 Dushera 11 Dushera 15 Vijaya Dashmi 11 Dushera 
31-Oct-24 Thursday 13 Diwali (Narak 
chaturdashi) 13 Diwali (Narak 
chaturdashi) 14 Diwali (Narak 
chaturdashi) 12 Diwali (Narak 
chaturdashi) 
  
12 Diwali (Narak chaturdashi) 
 
1-Nov-24 
 
Friday 
 
14 
 
Diwali (Laxmipujan) 
 
14 
Diwali (Laxmipujan)/ 
Karnataka Rajyothsava 
 
15 
 
Diwali 
(Laxmipujan) 
 
13 
 
Diwali (Laxmipujan) 
   
13 
 
Diwali (Laxmipujan) 
2-Nov-24 Saturday 15 Diwali (Balipratipada) 15 Diwali (Balipratipada)   14 Diwali 
(Balipratipada) 
  14 Diwali (Govardhan Puja) 
15-Nov-24 Friday       15 Gurunanak Jayanti   15 Gurunanak Jayanti 
25-Dec-24 Wednesday 16 Christmas 16 Christmas 1
6 
Christmas 1
6 
Christmas 1
6 
Christmas 1
6 
Christmas 
Holidays falling on Sunday 
14-Jan-24 Sunday      Sankranti/Pongal       
7-Jul-24 Sunday         1 Rath Yatra   
  
Classes/Lectures will be conducted, if required (except on the National Holida ys i.e. January 26, August 15, May 01 & October 02)  
Note: For Employees whose weekly off is other than Sunday.  
All those employees who are having weekly off other than Sunday and if the Holiday falls on Sunday not declared by the Univer sity

=== page 121 ===
18. People you should know
School Administration
Name  Designation
Dr. Koteswararao Anne  Dean
Dr. Sudipto Sarkar  Director
Dr. Archana Bhise  Associate Dean (Research and Development)
Dr, Vaishali Kulkarni  Associate Dean (Academic and Faculty Development)
Dr. Keta Shah  Associate Dean (Accreditation)
Ms. Anjali Barmukh   Joint Registrar
Ms. Gauri Pedgulkar  Assistant Registrar (Academics)
Head of Departments
Dr. Aiay Phirke  HOD, BSH
Dr. Ketan Shah  HOD, IT
Dr. Vaishali Kulkarni  HOD, Artificial Intelligence
Dr. Dhirendra Mishra  HOD, Computer Engineering
Dr. Geetha Iyer  HOD, Technology Mahagement
Dr. Venkatesh Deshmukh  HOD, Mechatronics
Dr. Ashish Deshmukh.  HOD. Mechanical
Dr. Avinash More  HOD, EXTC
Dr. Meenal Mategaonkar  HOD, Civil
Dr. Siba Panda  HOD, Data Science
Library
Dr. Ravikumar Bellary  Dy. Librarian  Ravikumar.Bellary@nmims.edu
Counsellor
Ms. Ketaki Gokhale  Counsellor  ketaki.gokhale@nmims.edu
Finance and Accounts
Ms. Preeti Mandvikar  Accountant  Preeti.Mandvikar@nmims.edu
Examinations
Ms. Rupali Patkar  Assistant Registrar  Rupali.patkar@nmims.edu
(Examinations)
Placement
Ms. Aparma Mahesh  Jt. Director (Placement)  Aparna.Mahesh@nmims.edu
Purchase and Store
Ms. Yogita Masal  Coordinator  Yogita.Masal@nmims.edu
Ms. Vrunda Patil  Coordinator  Vrunda.Patil@nmims.edu
IT, Computer and Web Management
Mr. Sameer Borekar  IT Engineer  Sameer.Borekar@nmims.edu
Maintenance
Mr. Sachin Mhatre  Maintenance and Administration  Sachin.Mhatre@nmims.edu
Officer
Mr. Srinath Pillai  Admin Coordinator  Srinath.Pillai@nmims.edu
61